-1-
DEFENSE MORNING CLIPS
As of 043 0 Hours, J u l y 9
OVERVIEW
President Biden announced the U.S. military operation in Afghanistan would conclude by August 31, stated the 
U.S. intended to maintain diplomatic presence to pursue a peace agreement, and pledged to evacuate thousands 
of interpreters who served alongside American troops, the Washington Post wrote. Separately, Pentagon 
spokesperson Rob Lodewick confirmed the U.S. military will provide “additional aircraft” as part of a larger 
stopgap measure to help maintain and support the Afghan military, according to Foreign Policy. Also of note, 
Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby expressed concern with recent attacks using “lethal weaponry” on U.S. 
personnel in Iraq and Syria, remarking “it is a serious threat,” Reuters reported.
TOP STORIES
1. Biden defends Afghan pullout
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A1 | Cleve R. Wootson Jr., Dan Lamothe and John Wagner
President Biden on Thursday forcefully rejected criticism that his decision to pull U.S. troops out of Afghanistan 
had left the country spiraling toward civil war or headed for an inevitable Taliban takeover, saying hurdles were 
to be expected and did not undermine the case for withdrawal. Biden said that he and his advisers had anticipated 
that difficult challenges would arise during the withdrawal but that focusing on such problems has for too long 
been a rationale for extending an engagement that was killing Americans but doing little to advance U.S. interests.
2. U.S. to Prop Up Afghan Air Force
ForeignPolicy.com (Report), July 8 (1723) | Jack Detsch
The United States has agreed to leave contractors in Afghanistan to help maintain Afghan military equipment as 
a stopgap measure while the Biden administration determines what role the Pentagon will play in striking targets 
within Afghanistan from bases outside the country after the withdrawal of American troops.
3. Pentagon ‘deeply concerned’ by recent attacks on personnel in Iraq, Syria
Reuters, July 8 (2130) | Not Attributed
The Pentagon said on Thursday it was deeply concerned about a series of attacks on U.S. personnel in Iraq and 
Syria in recent days. U.S. diplomats and troops in Iraq and Syria were targeted in three rocket and drone attacks 
on Wednesday alone, including at least 14 rockets hitting an Iraqi air base hosting U.S. forces, wounding two 
American service members.-2-
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
4. Pentagon No. 2 tours shipyards as race with China heats up
Nikkei Asia Online (Japan), July 8 (1518) | Ken Moriyasu
U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks has kicked off a multistate trip in New England -- a hub of 
military installations vital to taking on a rising China, including sites for building and maintaining submarines 
and destroyers.
5. Pentagon Comes Around to Idea Of the Multicloud
Wall Street Journal, July 9 (0200), Pg. B4 | Sara Castellanos and Angus Loten
The Pentagon’s decision to drop a proposed cloud contract with Microsoft Corp. in favor of planning to hire 
multiple vendors for the job is in line with the IT strategy at many big corporations and government agencies.
6. Inside DOD’s JEDI replacement, the Joint Warfighter Cloud Capability
FedScoop.com, July 8 (1459) | Billy Mitchell
After years of pursuing a single-vendor model for its general-purpose, enterprise cloud under the Joint Enterprise 
Defense Infrastructure (JEDI) acquisition and failing to move it into operation, the Department of Defense 
announced this week it will pivot to a multi-vendor enterprise cloud acquisition called the Joint Warfighter Cloud 
Capability (JWCC), issuing a presoliciation notice to industry. While details of the forthcoming JWCC are limited 
for now, DOD acting CIO John Sherman revealed some key changes for the procurement. The department will 
look to issue multiple direct awards with cloud service providers and is also intending to seek proposals from 
JEDI-winner Microsoft and its main competitor Amazon. Several years down the road, DOD will also pursue a 
“larger, full-and-open” multi-cloud procurement.
7. Pentagon pushes back at GOP lawmakers over critical race theory claims
Politico Online, July 8 (1323) | Lara Seligman
The Pentagon is defending comments made by Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin after GOP lawmakers claimed
the military chief misrepresented the department’s stance on the teaching of critical race theory.
COVID-19
8. Study stresses variant threat
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A1 | Joel Achenbach
New laboratory research on the swiftly spreading delta variant of the coronavirus is highlighting the threats posed 
by viral mutations, adding urgency to calls to accelerate vaccination efforts across the planet. The bottom line is 
that, in a time when the delta variant is rapidly gaining traction - it now accounts for a majority of new infections -3-
in the United States, according to the latest estimate from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - full 
vaccination offers a much better firewall against infection than partial vaccination.
EXECUTIVE/LEGISLATIVE
9. Lawmakers Mull Pentagon Contracting ‘Remedy’ After JEDI Blunder
Bloomberg News, July 8 (1247) | Chris Cornillie
Key House lawmakers vowed to consider changes to the Pentagon’s arcane technology buying process after senior 
Defense Department officials canceled its flagship cloud computing program.
10. Justice Dept. Debates Due Process Rights for Guantánamo Bay Detainees
New York Times, July 9 (0300), Pg. A11 | Charlie Savage and Carol Rosenberg
The Biden administration legal team is divided over whether the government should say that detainees at the 
American naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, have due process rights under the Constitution, according to 
people familiar with internal deliberations.
11. U.S. Intelligence Agencies Turn to Scientists for Help
New York Times, July 9 (0200), Pg. A12 | Julian E. Barnes
The nation’s intelligence agencies are looking for ways to increase their expertise in a range of scientific 
disciplines as they struggle to answer unexplained questions -- about the origins of the coronavirus pandemic, 
unidentified phenomenon observed by Navy pilots and mysterious health ailments affecting spies and diplomats 
around the world.
12. Biden rescue plan for Afghan allies welcomed by lawmakers, some still concerned it’s not fast 
enough
Washington Times Online, July 8 (1831) | Joseph Clark
Some lawmakers were skeptical, others cautiously optimistic, when President Biden announced Thursday plans 
to begin evacuating Afghan interpreters and other allies as the U.S. military complete a pullout by the end of next 
month. Mr. Biden said flights will begin later this month to relocate those who have applied for Special Immigrant 
Visas, a State Department program designed for U.S. enablers, to third countries outside to await approval to 
come to America.
AFGHANISTAN-PAKISTAN
13. Militia commanders rush to aid Afghan forces against Taliban
Reuters, July 8 (2312) | Not Attributed-4-
A prominent anti-Taliban commander with private militia will help Afghan forces in their fight against Taliban 
insurgents to claw back control over parts of western Afghanistan including a border crossing with Iran, local 
officials said on Friday. A key district in Herat province, home to tens of thousands of minority Shi’ite Hazaras 
was captured by fighters of the hardline Sunni Muslim insurgent group on Thursday as part of their strategy to 
oust Afghan forces and hold sway over critical border towns and trade routes.
14. Reports: Taliban seize key Afghan border crossing with Iran
Associated Press, July 8 (1511) | Hamed Sarfarazi and Rahim Faiez
The Taliban on Thursday seized another key Afghan border crossing, this time with Iran, according to an Afghan 
official and Iranian media. The seizure is part of a Taliban surge as American troops complete their pullout from 
Afghanistan.
15. Afghanistan’s Taliban, Now on China’s Border, Seek to Reassure Beijing
Wall Street Journal Online, July 8 (0915) | Yaroslav Trofimov and Chao Deng
After seizing about one-third of Afghanistan’s districts in this summer’s offensive, the Taliban this week swept 
through the northeastern Badakhshan province, reaching the mountainous border with China’s Xinjiang region.
Considering the Taliban’s historical connections with Xinjiang’s Uyghur militant groups affiliated with al Qaeda, 
this advance would have caused alarm to Beijing in the past. These days, however, the Taliban go out of their 
way to assuage China’s concerns, eager to secure Beijing’s acquiescence to their rule.
16. Russia-led bloc ready to act if Afghan border unravels, Taliban reassures Moscow
Reuters, July 8 (1311) | Not Attributed
The Russian-led CSTO military bloc said on Thursday it was ready to mobilise its full capacity if the situation on 
Tajikistan’s border with Afghanistan deteriorated as a Taliban delegation in Moscow told Russia it did not pose 
a threat to the region.
17. Most UK troops now out of Afghanistan – Johnson
Agence France-Presse, July 8 (1110) | Not Attributed
Most of the remaining British troops assigned to the NATO mission in Afghanistan have left, Prime Minister 
Boris Johnson announced on Thursday, with the rest to come home shortly.
MIDDLE EAST
18. Drone attacks by Iraqi militias reflect Iran’s waning hold
Associated Press, July 9 (0212) | Qassim Abdul-Zahra and Samya Kullab
Iran’s expeditionary Quds Force commander brought one main directive for Iraqi militia faction leaders long 
beholden to Tehran, when he gathered with them in Baghdad last month: Maintain calm, until after nuclear talks -5-
between Iran and the United States. But he was met with defiance. One of the six faction leaders spoke up in their 
meeting: They could not stay quiet while the death of his predecessor Qassim Soleimani and senior Iraqi militia 
commander Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis in a U.S. drone strike went unavenged.
CHINA
19. US urges China talks after reports of nuclear build-up
Agence France-Presse, July 8 (0954) | Nina Larson
The United States voiced deep concern on Thursday at reports that China is dramatically scaling up its nuclear 
arsenal, urging Beijing to engage in talks to avoid a global arms race. “It is in everyone’s interest that nuclear 
powers talk to one another directly about reducing nuclear dangers and avoiding miscalculation,” Robert Wood, 
US ambassador to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, told reporters.
20. U.S. intel chief claims growing risk of Chinese hit on neighbor
Washington Times, July 9 (0300), Pg. A1 | Bill Gertz
China’s growing military power in Asia has increased the danger Beijing will launch a war against a neighboring 
state, with Taiwan just one of several likely future targets, the admiral in charge of intelligence for the Pentagon’s 
Indo-Pacific Command warned this week. Rear Adm. Mike Studeman, the top intelligence officer, or J-2, for the 
East Asian command, said in a conference Wednesday that U.S. military forces are bolstering arms and equipment 
for when conflict could break out in the region over Taiwan or another American ally or partner.
21. Five years after South China Sea ruling, China’s presence around Philippines only growing
Reuters, July 8 (2341) | Not Attributed
Filipino fisherman Randy Megu has often braved the storms that spring up in the South China Sea, but these days 
he has a greater fear: seeing a Chinese maritime enforcement vessel on the horizon. Five years after a landmark 
international arbitration court ruling repudiated China’s claims to the waters where Megu fishes, the 48-year-old 
complains that his encounters with Chinese boats are more frequent than ever.
EUROPE
22. Fighter jets scramble, interrupt leaders in Lithuania
Associated Press, July 8 (0957) | Jari Tanner and Lorne Cook
A news conference at a NATO air base in Lithuania featuring Lithuania’s president and Spain’s prime minister 
got abruptly cut off Thursday when the pair of Spanish fighter jets serving as the leaders’ backdrop were 
scrambled to monitor errant military aircraft in the skies above the Baltics.
AFRICA
23. Macron to reassure African leaders on commitment to fighting terror-6-
Agence France-Presse, July 9 (0047) | Didier Lauras
President Emmanuel Macron will seek to reassure Sahel leaders of his commitment to Africa’s anti-terror fight 
on Friday, at their first talks since he announced a reduction of French troops in West Africa. The decision last 
month to scale back French forces -- and hopefully convince EU allies to step up their presence -- opens an 
uncertain phase in the fight against jihadist insurgents that control wide swathes of West Africa.
24. Marines deploy to southern African nation amid pro-democracy protests
Marine Corps Times Online, July 8 (1220) | Philip Athey
A team of 13 Marines with the Marine security guard Security Augmentation Unit have been sent to the U.S. 
embassy in the small southern African nation of Eswatini to beef up security as pro-democracy protests in the 
nation turn violent.
AMERICAS
25. Two U.S. citizens among Haiti suspects
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A1 | Widlore Merancourt, Anthony Faiola and Shawn Boburg
Haitian authorities on Thursday escalated their hunt for what one official called the “intellectual authors” behind 
the assassination of President Jovenel Moïse, saying they had detained several suspects - including two U.S. 
citizens - as they tried to keep the capital from descending into vigilante justice.
AIR FORCE
26. Air Force ‘Not There Yet’ On Key Hurdle For Digital Revolution
BreakingDefense.com, July 8 (1505) | Theresa Hitchens
As the Air Force continues to press ahead with its wide-ranging initiative to “digitize” its acquisition processes 
— from weapon system design to engineering to production to testing — using computerized models, called 
digital twins, to speed up testing remains a challenge, according to Darlene Costello, the service’s acting 
acquisition head. Making digital testing a reality is key to the service’s hopes for its e-Program and e-Series effort. 
Without the ability to test based on simulations, much of the time savings from those efforts will dissipate. And 
as of now, the service isn’t where it needs to be. Simply put, “We’re not there yet,” Costello told the Potomac 
Officers Club today.
ARMY
27. Long Road Ahead for Energy Resilience of Army Installations
DefenseOne.com, July 8 (1820) | Caitlin M. Kenney
Army installations are reliant on commercial companies to provide them with electricity and water, but that utility 
infrastructure is vulnerable to natural disasters and threats like the recent Colonial pipeline cyberattack. Schofield -7-
Barracks in Hawaii recently tested its ability to overcome such a threat by using a generation station to provide 
energy to local bases; however, most Army installations do not have this capability.
NAVY
28. Navy Outlines Planning, Execution Failures in Cruiser Modernization Program
U.S. Naval Institute News, July 8 (1839) | Mallory Shelbourne
The Navy’s push to retire seven guided-missile cruisers stems from management and planning in its original 
modernization program that caused exorbitant cost growth, according to service officials. Navy officials have 
repeatedly cited cost as a reason for the proposed decommissionings, arguing that the service could put the money 
toward other modernization priorities instead of sustaining the aging platforms.
INSTALLATIONS
29. ‘Significant’ 120 MPH Tornado Carves Through Georgia Submarine Base
Military.com, July 8 (0700) | Konstantin Toropin
A tornado with winds that reached about 120 miles per hour struck Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay, Georgia, 
on Wednesday afternoon, causing injuries and damage, the National Weather Service said Thursday.
CYBER
30. Cybergang REvil hits defense contractor
Washington Times, July 9 (0300), Pg. A1 | Ryan Lovelace
The REvil cybergang hit a defense contractor whose customers include the U.S. military in a brash test of 
President Biden’s tough talk seeking to deter cyberattackers bombarding America.
NOTABLE COMMENTARY
31. To Provide and Maintain a Navy: Understanding the Business of Navy Shipbuilding
Proceedings Magazine, July 2021, Vol. 147/7/1,421 | Sen. Jack Reed (D-RI) and Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK)
As we noted in Proceedings last year, leaders in the Pentagon, on Capitol Hill, and in industry all agree: We must 
accelerate innovative research and development, acquire new capabilities faster, and transform the way the U.S. 
military fights in order to implement our defense strategy.
32. Why America is right to quit Afghanistan
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A19 | Fareed Zakaria
There is a history lesson worth learning here about imperial overreach, as the United States leaves Afghanistan. 
Many voices warn that what follows will be instability and eventually a Taliban takeover. The country will once -8-
again become a base for terrorism, they argue, and so we must stay to keep it stable and in friendly hands. The 
truth is, since 9/11, Washington and most advanced governments have developed a powerful capacity to intercept 
terrorists, track them down and prevent them from launching large-scale attacks. Groups such as al-Qaeda and 
the Islamic State are in tatters, hunted everywhere and fragmented into local forces. They operate in various 
unstable countries, such as Afghanistan, Mali and Yemen. This is an argument for global counterterrorism efforts, 
not the sustained occupation of any one particular place.
33. Biden Says Kabul Is No Saigon
Wall Street Journal, July 9 (0200), Pg. A14 | Editorial
President Biden doesn’t like to be asked difficult questions about Afghanistan. A week ago he rebuffed a reporter 
by saying he preferred to discuss “happy things, man.” He was more forthcoming on Thursday but still tetchy 
when reporters asked about Taliban advances as U.S. troops depart.
34. How We Get to Captain America-level Battle Speeds
DefenseOne.com, July 8 (1724) | U.S. Air Force Vice Chief of Staff Gen. David Allvin
While this was entertaining fiction, the fact is that future conflicts will require the U.S. military to make rapid 
progress toward this and other aspirational visions of command and control, or C2, as I wrote in my recent Defense 
One article on the Department of the Air Force’s Advanced Battle Management System, or ABMS. We are on 
the verge of a time in which we can collect vast amounts of data from sensors in every domain, share it with 
troops in every service branch, process that data to provide decision-quality information, and execute operations 
at a tempo that exceeds our adversary—all within the span of a typical Hollywood action sequence. Deciding and 
acting at speeds that fast is a decisive advantage in conflict and a powerful deterrent. But for real-world programs 
like ABMS and the coveted Joint All-Domain Command and Control, or JADC2, to come together, we need 
cultural and organizational advances that are duller than the Hollywood dream-tech but more essential. Process 
matters, as does a uniform set of rules and a streamlined bureaucracy geared toward cooperation and integration.
35. Responding to ransomware
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A20 | Editorial
“Are they going to act?” President Biden asked after his meeting with President Vladimir Putin in Geneva about 
whether the Russian government would finally crack down on ransomware gangs. His answer to his own question: 
“We’ll find out.” Now we have.-9-
TOP STORIES
1. Biden defends Afghan pullout
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A1 | Cleve R. Wootson Jr., Dan Lamothe and John Wagner
President Biden on Thursday forcefully rejected criticism that his decision to pull U.S. troops out of Afghanistan 
had left the country spiraling toward civil war or headed for an inevitable Taliban takeover, saying hurdles were 
to be expected and did not undermine the case for withdrawal.
In his first speech on the issue since announcing the decision in April, Biden also pledged to relocate thousands 
of Afghan interpreters who served alongside U.S. troops and now fear for their lives and the safety of their 
families, adding that some relocation flights would begin as early as this month.
Biden’s remarks at the White House came as the rapid disintegration of security in Afghanistan, and sweeping 
gains by the Taliban, threatened to hinder the president’s desire to make a clean break with a two-decade war that 
has cost trillions of dollars and killed about 2,400 U.S. service members.
Last week, the United States transferred Bagram air base, its most important airfield in Afghanistan, to Afghan 
forces, a near-final step in the withdrawal that Biden now says will be completed by Aug. 31, the most specific 
date he’s given so far.
Biden said that he and his advisers had anticipated that difficult challenges would arise during the withdrawal but 
that focusing on such problems has for too long been a rationale for extending an engagement that was killing 
Americans but doing little to advance U.S. interests.
“Let me ask those who want us to stay: How many more - how many thousands more Americans, daughters and 
sons - are you willing to risk?” Biden said from the East Room of the White House, standing in front of the flags 
of the U.S. military branches. “I will not send another generation of Americans to war in Afghanistan with no
reasonable expectation of achieving a different outcome.”
Since U.S. troops began leaving Afghanistan, Taliban fighters have swept across much of the country, encircling 
provincial capitals and in some cases cutting deals with Afghan troops who have laid down their arms.
Even as Biden was speaking, news spread that the Taliban had seized a major transit route between Afghanistan 
and Iran. A recent U.S. intelligence assessment said that President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul could 
fall within six to 12 months of the U.S. departure, potentially creating a humanitarian and security crisis - and a 
political problem for Biden.-10-
Afghanistan evokes more emotion from Biden than almost any other subject, and he said forcefully Thursday that 
a takeover by the Taliban was “not inevitable” because the country’s fate was in the hands of Afghanistan’s 
leaders. He stressed to Ghani in a meeting two weeks ago that “Afghan leaders have to come together and drive 
toward a future that the Afghan people want,” Biden recalled.
The president said the United States would continue to provide civilian and humanitarian assistance to the country, 
and he renewed his call for a diplomatic solution between the Afghan government and the Taliban.
“I intend to maintain our diplomatic presence in Afghanistan, and we’re coordinating closely with our 
international partners in order to continue to secure the international airport,” he said. “And we’re going to engage 
the determined diplomacy to pursue peace and a peace agreement that will end this senseless violence.”
But negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan government have been stalled for months, and the removal 
of the U.S. military deprives Afghan leaders of important leverage.
Critics have warned against abandoning interpreters and other Afghans who helped the American war effort, and 
Biden told them Thursday that “there is a home for you in the United States if you so choose.” But his 
administration released few details.
The U.S. military action in Afghanistan began in the months after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, as 
President George W. Bush sought to root out a Taliban regime that had provided a staging ground for al-Qaeda 
to plan its attack on the United States. Biden’s decision to end the engagement has won support in both political 
parties - but the criticism has been bipartisan as well, especially from those who fear that pulling out will bolster 
the Taliban.
Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) said she was encouraged by the president’s efforts to get Afghan allies out of 
harm’s way but is deeply concerned about the deterioration of security in Afghanistan.
“Sadly, this follows a trajectory that I feared: a resurgence of the Taliban and direct threats to communities 
vulnerable to their violence and oppression,” she said, calling for a plan “to maintain the progress made to advance 
women’s rights and to ensure the safety of our allies who risked their lives, and the safety of their families, in 
support of the U.S. mission.”
Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) likened Biden’s announcement to the “Iraq withdrawal debacle,” when an 
initial U.S. pullout led to a resurgence of violence, and said the president made his decision against “sound 
military advice.”
“President Biden does not understand conditions are developing in Afghanistan for a reemergence of al-Qaeda 
and ISIS which will directly threaten the American homeland and our allies,” he said in a lengthy tweet thread. 
“Get ready for major upheaval as this decision by President Biden is a disaster in the making.”-11-
Some military analysts, however, argue that the Taliban is now at odds with al-Qaeda and the Islamic State and 
that the scenario that Graham envisages is unlikely to develop. And Biden said Thursday that for some, it would 
never be the right time to end the U.S. engagement.
“In 2011, our NATO allies and partners agreed that we would end our combat mission in 2014. And in 2014, we 
signed on for one more year,” Biden said. “So we kept fighting, kept taking casualties. In 2015, the same, and on 
and on. Twenty years of experience has shown, and the current situation only confirms, that just one more year 
of fighting in Afghanistan is not a solution.”
He also dismissed suggestions that the withdrawal from Afghanistan carries echoes of the United States’
humiliating exit from Vietnam in 1975.
“There’s going to be no circumstance for you to see people being lifted off the roof of an embassy of the United 
States from Afghanistan,” Biden said, referring to the evacuations by helicopter of thousands of Americans and 
South Vietnamese from Saigon in 1975. “It is not at all comparable.”
Still, Gen. Austin “Scott” Miller, the top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, expressed concern last month 
that the country could slide into civil war. He said the country could face “very hard times” unless its fractious 
civilian leadership united and the armed groups battling the Taliban were made “accountable” for their actions.
While dismissing comparisons with Vietnam, Biden on Thursday also rejected the notion that he was engaging 
in a “Mission Accomplished” moment. Bush in 2003 triumphantly declared success in Iraq standing before a 
banner carrying that slogan, an image that came back to haunt him as violence surged in Iraq and U.S. casualties 
mounted.
“There’s no ‘Mission Accomplished,’” Biden said. “The mission was accomplished in that we got Osama bin 
Laden, and terrorism is not emanating from that part of the world.” Bin Laden, the al-Qaeda leader, was killed in 
2011 when U.S. forces raided his hideout in Pakistan, where he had evaded an international manhunt for nearly a 
decade.
The fate of interpreters and others who aided the U.S. military has been one of the central concerns during the 
pullout, and Biden stressed that they would not be abandoned.
John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman, said the Defense Department is looking at military installations overseas that 
it can use to temporarily house interpreters and their families. He declined to name the sites but said that senior 
defense officials will seek flexibility to accommodate a number that could fluctuate.
“There’s not one part of the world that we’re solely focused on where we could house some of these individuals,”
Kirby said. “It’s truly sort of a global look.”-12-
Among the options on the table are military installations in the Middle East and Guam, an administration official 
said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.
Kirby said chartered flights would be the “preferred option” for relocating the interpreters.
Keith Saddler, a senior official with the nonprofit organization No One Left Behind, which advocates for the 
safety of the interpreters, said that he was glad to hear Biden commit to helping the interpreters, although he 
wanted additional specifics.
“I would like to hear more details about when, how and where they will be adjudicated so that we can prepare to 
support them when they get to the United States,” Saddler said.
Earlier this year, Biden committed to withdrawing nearly all U.S. troops from Afghanistan by Sept. 11 - the 20th 
anniversary of the terrorist attacks - but the process has been faster than anticipated. After the withdrawal, 
anywhere from 650 to 1,000 U.S. troops are expected to remain in the country to guard the U.S. Embassy and the 
airport in Kabul.
American troops were last killed in Afghanistan on Feb. 8, 2020, when two Special Forces soldiers - Sgt. 1st 
Class Javier Jaguar Gutierrez and Sgt. 1st Class Antonio Rey Rodriguez, both 28 - were killed by gunfire in an 
attack on their unit. A few weeks later, the Taliban stopped targeting U.S. forces after a deal with the Trump 
administration that called for all U.S. troops to leave Afghanistan by May of this year.
While the Biden administration did not meet that deadline, the Taliban continued to hold fire as the president 
considered how to disentangle the United States from the war. Proponents of continuing U.S. operations, such as 
retired Gen. David Petraeus, have cited that fact, contending that if no Americans are being attacked, there is no 
harm in staying.
But most military experts expect that the cease-fire will not continue if the United States revisits its decision to 
leave.
A poll taken shortly after Biden announced the pullout showed it to be fairly popular. In a Quinnipiac survey in 
late May, 62 percent of Americans said they approved, while 29 percent disapproved and 9 percent offered no 
opinion.
--Felicia Sonmez, Alex Horton, Miriam Berger and Siobhàn O’Grady contributed to this report
RETURN TO TOP-13-
2. U.S. to Prop Up Afghan Air Force
Afghanistan will get an injection of contractor support and planes for its beleaguered Air Force
ForeignPolicy.com (Report), July 8 (1723) | Jack Detsch
The United States has agreed to leave contractors in Afghanistan to help maintain Afghan military equipment as 
a stopgap measure while the Biden administration determines what role the Pentagon will play in striking targets 
within Afghanistan from bases outside the country after the withdrawal of American troops.
The contractors are staying for the time being in Afghanistan until officials work out a more permanent contract 
for the repair, maintenance, and overhaul of American assets provided to the Afghan military, a senior Afghan 
official, speaking on condition of anonymity to talk about sensitive military planning, told Foreign Policy.
The official would not provide the number of contractors staying or where they were located, citing operational 
security. The exact timeline for contractors staying—perhaps past U.S. President Joe Biden’s self-imposed Aug. 
31 deadline for U.S. troops and contractors to leave—has not been discussed by American and Afghan officials.
But the move could provide a respite for beleaguered Afghan forces, who have crumbled before a withering 
assault from the Taliban in recent weeks. As the Taliban appear to be shifting away from guerrilla tactics toward 
a more conventional military approach focused on reclaiming cities, ramping up Afghan air power could check 
the Taliban’s progress.
“The symmetry of the battlefield is likely to shift to more conventional warfare and the Taliban will try to 
concentrate forces,” said Asfandyar Mir, a South Asia expert at Stanford University. “Until now, U.S. air power, 
especially [intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance] was a major deterrent.”
The State Department referred questions about the United States’ plans for the Afghan military to the Defense 
Department. In a statement, Pentagon spokesperson Rob Lodewick told Foreign Policy that the department has 
already begun implementing maintenance support to the Afghan Air Force and special mission wing from third 
countries.
“Aircraft that require heavy repair and phase maintenance are being transported to other locations; in many ways 
this is not significantly different than how such maintenance is currently performed, and it involves the higher 
levels of maintenance that Afghan military maintainers generally are unable to perform anyway,” he said, before 
talking about a spate of helicopters Kabul relies on. “Afghan UH-60s, MD-530s and Mi-17s have long been 
brought to facilities outside Afghanistan for such repairs, just as the U.S. military extracts its aircraft to specific 
locations for such repairs regardless of the locations in which they are conducting combat operations.”
Impacts on the readiness of the Afghan Air Force “will mainly result” from more reliance on Afghan mechanics 
to do some routine maintenance and get on-the-job training, Lodewick said. In the past, half of that had been done 
by Defense Department contractors. To mitigate this risk, contractor maintenance mentors will continue to -14-
participate virtually to provide support and instruction and provide spare parts for Afghan techs. The senior 
Afghan official added that some aircraft will be transported out of the country, while others will receive 
maintenance in Afghanistan, with contractors doing some repair and maintenance in-country.
Leaving behind American-hired contractors, even as most remaining U.S. combat troops closed down Bagram 
Airfield last week and departed the country, is a sign that the Biden administration’s calculus on providing postwar 
air support to the Afghans could be changing. But it’s not yet clear what the threshold would be for the United 
States to provide air cover of its own.
Speaking at the White House on July 2, Biden told reporters that the United States had worked out a way to 
support the Afghans with air power from outside the country that “can be value-added” but said “the Afghans are 
going to have to do it themselves with the Air Force they have.” Biden is scheduled to speak on Thursday at the 
White House about the administration’s plan to relocate Afghan interpreters to third countries while they await 
visa processing.
The senior Afghan official told Foreign Policy that the decision to keep contractors in place was part of an effort 
to provide overhaul on an urgent basis to existing Afghan aircraft that are out of service because of repair and 
maintenance needs, something that has significantly hampered Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s government in 
its efforts to stanch the Taliban offensive.
Biden had previously insisted that all American personnel, including contractors, would leave the country. On 
July 2, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said that the United States was still working on ways to provide support 
to the Afghan security forces and Air Force, possibly remotely or physically outside of the country.
In just the past six days, the Taliban have taken control of 10 percent of the country, according to a tally from the 
Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a think tank, which asserts that the Afghan government controls less 
than a fifth of the country.
The United States will also provide the Afghans with dozens of new air assets, including UH-60 Black Hawk 
helicopters and A-29 Super Tucanos, the Afghan official said, the latter being a light propeller-driven Brazilian 
plane that’s capable of dropping precision-guided munitions and carrying out surveillance missions over 
Afghanistan’s rugged terrain.
“In addition, DoD will seek to provide additional aircraft to the Afghans to both replenish combat losses and 
provide a ‘buffer’ stock to backfill aircraft that are sent out of country for extended service,” said Lodewick, the 
Pentagon spokesperson. Deliveries of UH-60 Black Hawks first acquired as part of a 2016 aviation modernization 
plan will begin this month, and the Pentagon also plans to provide the Afghan Air Force with strike aircraft to 
replace assets lost in combat.-15-
Afghanistan’s military will be getting an air power boost just as it is intensifying efforts to reverse the Taliban’s 
battlefield gains on the ground. NATO is set to begin the remote training of some Afghan special forces in Turkey 
in the coming weeks, an effort that could extend to the full Afghan National Security Forces by early next year.
Kabul is also banking on the Afghan public getting sick of the Taliban after decades of war. The military buildup 
has coincided with the sprouting of anti-Taliban militias that have emerged as the group, which has mostly still 
hewed to its hard-line 1990s-era Islamist ideology, has made gains across the country’s north.
The senior Afghan official said that these groups are organizing in support of or in conjunction with the Afghan 
National Security Forces, seeking the help of the military to arm their people. The official said the Afghan 
government is looking at trying to integrate the local groups into the Afghan National Army’s territorial forces, 
which serve as a local holding force for provincial areas but lack the ability to conduct more sophisticated 
operations.
But as the military revamp begins, U.S. and Afghan officials and experts are still trying to figure out how far the 
Taliban are willing to push on their latest offensive. “I think the Taliban is playing it ‘by ear’ and just testing both 
their own military capacity as well as the government’s mettle,” said Ibraheem Bahiss, a consultant with the 
International Crisis Group and an independent researcher on Afghanistan.
If the Taliban’s military wing is able to take and hold territory for a longer period of time, they may push for a 
greater say in peace talks in Doha, Qatar, a senior Afghan diplomat told Foreign Policy. And pushing too hard 
and too fast could upset neighboring countries and bigger powers that may still be tepid on the group, despite a 
recent diplomatic charm offensive.
“Even if they ended up taking over Kabul, which would be a near impossibility, they wouldn’t be able to sell it 
to the world,” the diplomat, who requested anonymity to discuss sensitive negotiations, said. “At the end of the 
day the Taliban needs aid, because they need to do service delivery, they need to govern. You cannot do that 
without aid and assistance, especially in a country that’s mostly donor drunk.”
RETURN TO TOP
3. Pentagon ‘deeply concerned’ by recent attacks on personnel in Iraq, Syria
Reuters, July 8 (2130) | Not Attributed
WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon said on Thursday it was deeply concerned about a series of attacks on U.S. 
personnel in Iraq and Syria in recent days.
U.S. diplomats and troops in Iraq and Syria were targeted in three rocket and drone attacks on Wednesday alone, 
including at least 14 rockets hitting an Iraqi air base hosting U.S. forces, wounding two American service 
members.-16-
While there were no immediate claims of responsibility for the attacks - part of a wave targeting U.S. troops or 
areas where they are based in Iraq and Syria - analysts believed they were part of a campaign by Iranian-backed 
militias.
“They are using lethal weaponry. I don’t know how you can say anything other than it is a serious threat,”
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters.
Iraqi militia groups aligned with Iran vowed to retaliate after U.S. strikes on the Iraqi-Syrian border killed four 
of their members last month.
Iran denied supporting attacks on U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria and condemned U.S. air strikes on Iranian-backed 
groups.
The United States has been holding indirect talks with Iran aimed at bringing both nations back into compliance 
with the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, which was abandoned by then-President Donald Trump. No date has been set for 
a next round of the talks, which adjourned on June 20.
--Reporting by Idrees Ali
RETURN TO TOP
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
4. Pentagon No. 2 tours shipyards as race with China heats up
Kathleen Hicks visits military installations key to winning great-power competition
Nikkei Asia Online (Japan), July 8 (1518) | Ken Moriyasu
NEW YORK -- U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks has kicked off a multistate trip in New England 
-- a hub of military installations vital to taking on a rising China, including sites for building and maintaining 
submarines and destroyers.
Hicks visited two shipyards in Maine on Wednesday, one federally owned and the other private.
The Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine, is one of the U.S. Navy’s four remaining public shipyards. It 
handles maintenance and modernization work for Los Angeles- and Virginia-class nuclear-powered fast attack 
submarines.
The U.S. had nine active public naval shipyards until the mid-1990s but shut many down as the Cold War ended 
and the defense budget shrank. The four survivors are more than a century old, and lawmakers have raised 
concerns that the outdated dry docks cannot handle the newer vessels that will be crucial in the great-power 
competition.-17-
In Kittery, Hicks received a briefing on one of the modernization efforts known as the “super flood basin.” This 
project will allow the seawater level to be raised and lowered so that submarines can enter and leave Dry Dock 
No. 1 independent of the Piscataqua River tides.
“Dry Dock No. 1 is the shallowest of the three dry docks at the shipyard and required a buoyancy assist system 
comprised of large floodable air-filled tanks in order to dock and undock submarines,” Portsmouth Naval 
Shipyard public affairs officer Danna Eddy told Nikkei Asia. “The basin, similar to a navigational lock, is being 
constructed at the entrance of the dry dock and enables submarines to be docked 365 days per year without 
buoyancy assistance.”
Currently, submarines can make entry on only a handful of days per month, owing to tidal conditions, and the 
bottleneck in repairs has held down the number of available subs in the fleet.
The upgrade will be especially important as the Navy introduces the longer “Block V” type of Virginia-class 
submarines, which will be fitted with an extra section in the middle to serve as a vertical launcher for Tomahawk 
missiles.
China is the world’s top ship-producing nation by tonnage and is “increasing its shipbuilding capacity and 
capability for all naval classes,” according to the Pentagon’s annual report to Congress on Chinese military and 
security developments.
A bipartisan group of U.S. lawmakers has proposed a $25 billion infusion into outdated public and private naval 
shipyards, and upgrades are underway at all four of the public sites. The other public shipyards are the Norfolk 
Naval Shipyard in Virginia, the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard in Washington, and the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard 
in Hawaii.
Also on Wednesday, Hicks went to the privately owned Bath Iron Works in Brunswick, Maine, where General 
Dynamics builds Arleigh Burke-class and Zumwalt-class destroyers. She visited the future USS Daniel Inouye -
- an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer named after the late Japanese American senator -- and met troops assigned to 
the ship.
The Arleigh Burke class is the current mainstay destroyer of the U.S. Navy but has been the target of restructuring 
in Pentagon’s latest budget request as the Navy prioritizes assets more fitted to a potential conflict with China, 
such as submarines.
How to plan for the future of the Arleigh Burke class will be a major point of discussion as the Pentagon and 
Congress work on the defense budget.-18-
For Thursday, Hicks’ itinerary included discussions at Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology on “the importance of academic partnerships to the Department’s modernization priorities, including 
rapid experimentation and the adoption of artificial intelligence,” according to a Pentagon announcement.
The trip takes Hicks through Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut and Massachusetts. It includes 
a visit to General Dynamics Electric Boat -- the builder of the new Columbia-class ballistic missile submarines, 
which will be constructed in Rhode Island to replace the current Ohio class starting around 2031 and form one 
leg of the U.S. nuclear triad.
RETURN TO TOP
5. Pentagon Comes Around to Idea Of the Multicloud
Wall Street Journal, July 9 (0200), Pg. B4 | Sara Castellanos and Angus Loten
The Pentagon’s decision to drop a proposed cloud contract with Microsoft Corp. in favor of planning to hire 
multiple vendors for the job is in line with the IT strategy at many big corporations and government agencies.
Many large companies rely on various cloud providers for technology infrastructure services, in part so they can 
pick and choose services from various companies and avoid being locked in to one vendor. About three-quarters 
of 850 respondents at midsize and large enterprises world-wide said in a survey last year that they use multiple 
cloud providers, according to a report by tech research firm Gartner Inc.
“If you are trying to make something work because you’re tied to a specific vendor or infrastructure, you are 
solving the wrong problems,” said Thomas Donnelly, chief information officer of software company BetterCloud 
Inc.
The New York company -- which manages and secures its customers’ internet-based applications, such as 
Dropbox and Salesforce -- primarily uses Google Cloud for its IT infrastructure, with some services from Amazon 
Web Services. IT leaders often build ecosystems that allow them to use new technologies regardless of the vendor, 
said Mr. Donnelly, who has managed multicloud deployments in previous roles. “As technology continues to 
accelerate, [multicloud] is really the only way to stay ahead of the curve,” he said.
The Pentagon’s scuttled cloud contract, dubbed Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure or JEDI, was designed to 
provide the military with access to services that better keep up with the pace of technology. The contract was 
awarded to Microsoft in 2019 over Amazon.com Inc., which contested the move in court.
Pentagon officials said the new project, Joint Warfighter Cloud Capability, will be open to Microsoft and Amazon. 
Other qualified bidders could include Alphabet Inc.’s Google, Oracle Corp. and International Business Machines 
Corp., officials said.
Advances in cloud computing made JEDI obsolete, according to a Pentagon official.-19-
“The evolving landscape is what has driven our thinking,” said John Sherman, the Pentagon’s acting chief 
information officer. “JEDI was the right approach at the time,” he added, but with changing circumstances “we’re
in a different place.”
Federal agencies are increasingly relying on the cloud and it has become commonplace for them to use multiple 
cloud vendors for IT services, said Adelaide O’Brien, research director at research firm International Data Corp.’s 
Government Insights division.
Many government agencies use their own private data centers to store and compute data, along with public cloud 
services from Amazon Web Services, IBM, Oracle and others, according to IDC surveys. Public cloud vendors 
offer remote data storage and processing services for enterprise customers.
Mike Kelly, CIO of software company Red Hat Inc., a subsidiary of IBM, said the No. 1 benefit for organizations 
that adopt multicloud strategies is they avoid the risks of being tied to one cloud provider that might change 
pricing models or fall behind competitors in some cloud-based services. “This means that you can take advantage 
of multiple cloud services, and leverage the innovation, options, and pricing outside of the umbrella of a single 
vendor,” Mr. Kelly said.
The downside, he added, is getting tech vendors to “play nicely together and with your on-premise technologies.”
RETURN TO TOP
6. Inside DOD’s JEDI replacement, the Joint Warfighter Cloud Capability
FedScoop.com, July 8 (1459) | Billy Mitchell
After years of pursuing a single-vendor model for its general-purpose, enterprise cloud under the Joint Enterprise 
Defense Infrastructure (JEDI) acquisition and failing to move it into operation, the Department of Defense 
announced this week it will pivot to a multi-vendor enterprise cloud acquisition called the Joint Warfighter Cloud 
Capability (JWCC), issuing a presoliciation notice to industry.
While details of the forthcoming JWCC are limited for now, DOD acting CIO John Sherman revealed some key 
changes for the procurement. The department will look to issue multiple direct awards with cloud service 
providers and is also intending to seek proposals from JEDI-winner Microsoft and its main competitor Amazon. 
Several years down the road, DOD will also pursue a “larger, full-and-open” multi-cloud procurement.
Speaking with reporters Tuesday, Sherman said the new program will “fill our urgent unmet requirements for a 
multi-vendor enterprise cloud spanning the entire department in all three security levels, with availability from 
[the Continental U.S.] to the tactical edge at scale. JWCC will enable us to fulfill the promise of transformational 
activities such as Joint All-Domain Command and Control, or JADC2, and the Artificial Intelligence and Data 
Acceleration or AIDA initiative.”-20-
While the continued protests of JEDI undoubtedly impacted DOD’s decision to cancel the beleaguered contract 
Tuesday, Sherman said even if it had gone into operation as intended after award, “we would have been having 
this multi-cloud discussion right about now anyway” due to the evolving needs of the department.
Though the DOD has a variety of existing vehicles to work with each of these cloud providers in place, like 
milCloud 2.0 and others, Sherman said there is “nothing to the extent and reach that the enterprise capability 
we’re seeking to acquire from this will provide through JWCC — truly from the headquarters to the tactical edge 
in all three security levels at scale.”
Where JEDI was a potential 10-year, $10 billion contract with an open competition, JWCC will be a maximum 
five-year vehicle worth multiple billions. The new contract also differs in that only those providers that the DOD 
believes meet its requirements will receive “direct” solicitations to submit proposals for contracts. While Sherman 
said Amazon and Microsoft both qualify, he clarified that they will not automatically be awarded anything; rather, 
they will be asked to submit proposals.
Each cloud provider will need to be able to offer services at the unclassified, secret and top-secret security levels, 
with parity across each of those levels. On top of that, the procurement’s basic requirements call for integrated 
cross-domain solutions, global availability including at the tactical edge and enhanced cybersecurity controls.
On the topic of price, that will be determined later in the procurement, Sherman said, emphasizing that people 
shouldn’t get fixated on a certain figure.
Over the next several months, the DOD will conduct market research and industry outreach to confirm its plans 
for the procurement and the companies that qualify to submit proposals, launching a final solicitation by midOctober, Sherman said. The hope is to issue final awards by “about April 2022.”
“Over the next roughly three months, we will conduct this additional research and direct engagements with other 
U.S. hyperscale cloud service providers or CSPs to ensure our assessments are accurate and based on the 
company’s latest information,” he said, noting that the department will be in close touch with other providers like 
IBM, Google and Oracle to see if they qualify to participate. “If we determine that additional vendors can also 
meet our requirements, then we will extend solicitations to them as well.”
Asked for his thoughts if there may be companies left out that may inevitably protest, forcing the JWCC 
acquisition to drag out like JEDI did, Sherman said if a provider is interested in participating, he and his team will 
be working with them to “hear fully their company’s capabilities.
“We’re going to be asking for artifacts and engagement to ensure that if they’re able to meet the level we need, 
that we get all that information and keep that door open through October,” he said. “That’s how we’re going to -21-
approach this. And whereas we can never control for every factor, our openness of this is going to be critical on 
that point.”
The direct awards with the providers will be indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contracts that span a threeyear base period and two optional years.
“We believe this contract period is both appropriately brief for a direct award but long enough for us to start to 
leverage the new enterprise capabilities as we fully develop our longer-term plan,” Sherman said.
Based on the timeline, as soon as 2025, the department could then move into a full-and-open competition that 
would follow on this initial acquisition, if the department deems it’s ready, Sherman said. “Once the second year 
of this direct award phase starts, roughly in 2023, for the next two years, we’re going to be working on the scoping 
and other activities to get ready for that larger, full-and-open competition.”
While the DOD Office of the CIO has ultimate oversight of the acquisition strategy, the Cloud Computing 
Program Officer within the Defense Information Systems Agency will lead the management and operation of any 
activities under JWCC and integration among providers.
RETURN TO TOP
7. Pentagon pushes back at GOP lawmakers over critical race theory claims
‘There is no contradiction here,’ the Pentagon’s top spokesperson said
Politico Online, July 8 (1323) | Lara Seligman
The Pentagon is defending comments made by Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin after GOP lawmakers claimed 
the military chief misrepresented the department’s stance on the teaching of critical race theory.
On Wednesday, an Air Force Academy professor wrote an op-ed in defense of discussing the subject with cadets, 
which prompted the lawmakers to criticize Austin, who said last month that the military does not teach critical 
race theory.
“There is no contradiction here. The Secretary’s comments stand,” Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby told 
POLITICO Thursday. “That a professor at an academic institution such as the Air Force Academy teaches a given 
theory as part of an elective course does not in the slightest way signify some larger effort by the Department to 
teach, espouse or embrace said theory.
“We expect our professors to challenge the minds of future leaders, and we respect their academic independence,”
he added.-22-
The comments are the latest development in an escalating spat between conservatives and the Pentagon over the 
military’s efforts to combat racism and extremism in the ranks, which also drew in the military’s top officer, Gen. 
Mark Milley, last week.
In a Wednesday Washington Post op-ed, Lynne Chandler Garcia, an associate professor of political science at the 
Air Force Academy, defended the teaching of critical race theory at the nation’s military schools, writing that she 
herself teaches it to cadets because it is “vital” that future military leaders understand the history of racism and 
how it has shaped the country.
“Cadets, like all military members, take an oath to defend the Constitution with their lives — so it is crucial they 
have a sensitive understanding of that Constitution,” Garcia wrote.
The piece immediately drew condemnation from conservative lawmakers, who alleged that Garcia’s comments 
contradict Austin’s testimony last month.
“We do not teach critical race theory, we don’t embrace critical race theory and I think that’s a spurious 
conversation,” Austin told lawmakers in June. “We are focused on extremist behaviors, and not ideology, not 
people’s thoughts, not people’s political orientation.”
Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) on Wednesday said that Garcia, based on her op-ed, has “no business” teaching the 
Constitution or political science to Air Force cadets, and called on her to start looking for a new job.
“Secretary Austin has testified at least twice that our military does not teach, instruct, or condone critical race 
theory,” Cotton said. “We should not be teaching and indoctrinating our cadets to believe that our military is a 
fundamentally racist institution.”
Rep. Michael Waltz (R-Fla.) also said there was a contradiction between Garcia’s comments and Austin’s 
testimony.
“Secretary Austin testified that DOD was not teaching Critical Race Theory yet we now know both West Point 
and the Air Force Academy are doing just that,” Waltz said in a statement to POLITICO Thursday. “Critical Race 
Theory isn’t a history lesson, it’s indoctrinating our future military leaders that America and the military are 
systemically racist. That’s unacceptable.”
One GOP lawmaker called on the Air Force to fire Garcia. Rep. Mark Green (R-Tenn.), a West Point graduate 
and former President Donald Trump’s one-time choice for Army secretary, demanded her firing in a Thursday 
letter to acting Air Force Secretary John Roth.-23-
“Professor García’s comments on Critical Race Theory are utterly unacceptable and incompatible with the 
mission of our United States Military Service Academies,” Green wrote. “Disparaging the United States as a 
racist country should disqualify anyone from teaching at one of our country’s most prestigious institutions.”
The controversy over discussion’s involving race in the military has also ensnared Milley, the chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff. Speaking alongside Austin in June before Congress, Milley dismissed as “offensive” GOP 
lawmakers’ characterization of military leaders as “woke” for studying the origins of racism, prompting outrage 
from the right. Trump later waded into the fray, calling on Milley to resign.
The reaction to Garcia’s comments comes just weeks after lawmakers demanded that another military school, the 
U.S. Military Academy West Point, stop teaching critical race theory. In a letter to West Point Superintendent Lt. 
Gen. Darryl Williams, Waltz called the teachings “divisive” and “unacceptable” for future military leaders.
“I think it is incredibly divisive,” Waltz told Fox News in June. “The underlying piece of critical race theory is 
that civilian institutions in this country are inherently misogynist, racist and colonialist, and therefore, it is our 
duty to resist them — that is fine for activists — but one of these cadets is going to be the chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, and being taught that the Constitution is critically flawed?”
“That, to me, is terrifying and destructive,” he said.
RETURN TO TOP
COVID-19
8. Study stresses variant threat
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A1 | Joel Achenbach
New laboratory research on the swiftly spreading delta variant of the coronavirus is highlighting the threats posed 
by viral mutations, adding urgency to calls to accelerate vaccination efforts across the planet.
A peer-reviewed report from scientists in France, published Thursday in the journal Nature, found that the delta 
variant has mutations that allow it to evade some of the neutralizing antibodies produced by vaccines or by a 
natural infection. A single shot of a two-dose vaccine “barely” offers any protection, researchers reported.
But the experiments found that fully vaccinated people - with the recommended regimen of two shots of the 
Pfizer-BioNTech or AstraZeneca vaccine - should retain significant protection against the delta variant. That 
echoes another report written by a collaboration of scientists in the United States and published Wednesday in 
the New England Journal of Medicine.-24-
The bottom line is that, in a time when the delta variant is rapidly gaining traction - it now accounts for a majority 
of new infections in the United States, according to the latest estimate from the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention - full vaccination offers a much better firewall against infection than partial vaccination.
“Please, get vaccinated. It will protect you against the surging of the delta variant,” Anthony S. Fauci, director of 
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said Thursday at a White House coronavirus briefing.
The studies on the delta variant emerge as concerns grow globally about a resurgence of the coronavirus. With 
infections increasing in Japan, that country’s prime minister Thursday declared a state of emergency in Tokyo, 
and organizers of the Tokyo Olympic Games moved to bar spectators from all events in and around the city.
Data released this week by Israel’s Ministry of Health showed vaccine efficacy against the coronavirus waning 
in that highly vaccinated country in tandem with the spread of the delta variant. The Israeli data showed lower 
protection against symptomatic illness, only 64 percent, although vaccinated people retain protection against 
severe illness.
Pfizer and its partner BioNTech released a statement Thursday evening saying they would seek federal regulatory 
approval for a booster shot following studies that found such a shot caused disease-blocking antibodies to increase 
5 to 10 times higher than after the two-shot regimen. The companies also said they plan to start clinical trial 
research using a reformulated vaccine designed to thwart the delta variant.
“We continue to believe that it is likely, based on the totality of the data we have to date, that a third dose may be 
needed within 6 to 12 months after full vaccination,” the statement said. “While protection against severe disease 
remained high across the full 6 months, the observed decline in efficacy against symptomatic disease over time 
and the continued emergence of variants are key factors driving our belief that a booster dose will likely be 
necessary to maintain highest levels of protection.”
The emergence of the delta variant is neither entirely surprising - virologists have warned that SARS-CoV-2 will 
continue to mutate - nor welcome, coming as many nations that have been mired in pandemic mode for a year 
and a half are trying to return to normal activity. England, for example, plans to lift all restrictions by July 19 
despite a surge in delta infections, which accounts for an estimated 95 percent of new cases. Britain’s health 
secretary, Sajid Javid, told BBC Radio that coronavirus cases could reach 100,000 a day this summer.
The first two authorized vaccines in the United States - shots from Pfizer and Moderna that use a technology 
called messenger RNA, known commonly as mRNA - are designed as a two-shot program. The research on Pfizer 
is presumed to apply to the similar Moderna vaccine. The one-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine regimen, by 
contrast, offers roughly the same protection against severe disease after one shot but is somewhat less effective 
at preventing mild to moderate symptomatic cases, according to earlier clinical trial data.-25-
Britain adopted a strategy of giving people a first dose of a vaccine and delaying the second, intending to broaden 
the reach of the limited supply. But that has led to breakthrough infections driven by the delta variant, said Monica 
Gandhi, an infectious-diseases doctor at the University of California at San Francisco who was not involved in 
either research study.
The new research from France published in Nature “really verifies the need for the full two-dose vaccine regimen 
to get full effectiveness of the vaccine against the delta,” she said.
Gandhi has warned against overreaction to the delta variant’s new dominance. She has said there is no evidence 
the delta variant is more deadly for an individual who becomes infected, a view echoed by Paul A. Offit, a 
pediatrician and vaccine expert at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.
“There’s no good evidence that this variant causes more serious disease,” Offit said. But he expressed concerns 
that the large number of people who are unvaccinated - including, because they are not yet eligible, children under 
12 - could fuel a winter wave of infections.
“It’s a winter virus. I think it’s going to surge this winter,” he said. “We have a lot of people in America who are 
not vaccinated, and they are going to be fertile ground for this virus.”
The variants are more transmissible than the earliest strain that emerged in Wuhan, China, although there is 
limited and less compelling evidence that they are more likely to cause severe disease. Numerous studies in recent 
months suggest that the vaccines can hold the line against the onrushing swarm of variants. Experiments in the 
lab and real-world data show the vaccines are particularly effective at preventing severe illness.
The results of the research in France suggest the delta variant, though slippery, struggles to evade vaccine-induced 
immunity. The researchers looked at blood samples from more than 100 people, most of them unvaccinated and 
having recovered from an infection. The study also looked at people who had been given a single dose or two 
doses of a vaccine.
The analysis found that antibodies from a natural infection were less able to neutralize the delta variant, 
particularly a year after infection. But among samples from people fully vaccinated, 95 percent retained sufficient 
antibodies to thwart the virus, said Olivier Schwartz, lead author of the Nature study and head of the Virus and 
Immunity Unit at the Pasteur Institute in Paris.
He said this should be seen as “good news,” adding that future research will determine how long the post-vaccine 
neutralizing antibody response lasts against the delta.
The New England Journal study was also based on laboratory experiments. It looked at two slightly different 
lineages of the delta variant. Compared with the original strain of the virus, one of the delta lineages was 6.8 times 
less susceptible to neutralization by antibody-loaded serum taken from vaccinated people and from patients who -26-
had recovered from covid-19, the disease caused by the virus. The other lineage - the one that is spreading most 
rapidly - was 2.9 times less susceptible.
Despite this erosion of neutralization, the researchers concluded that fully vaccinated people probably still had 
“protective immunity” from either sublineage of the delta variant.
This type of research has become critically important as the delta variant, which emerged in India, outcompetes 
other strains of the virus. Data posted this week by the CDC showed that, as of July 3, the delta variant represented 
an estimated 51.7 percent of new infections nationally, five times the prevalence of just four weeks earlier.
In some regions, it is particularly dominant. As of June 19, the delta variant was seen in 72 percent of new cases 
in Iowa, Kansas, Missouri and Nebraska, collectively, the CDC data show.
“Although we expected the delta variant to become the dominant strain in the United States, this rapid rise is 
troubling,” CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said in the White House briefing. “We know that the delta variant 
has increased transmissibility, and it is currently surging in pockets of the country with low vaccination rates.”
She said preliminary data from several states show that 99.5 percent of deaths from covid-19 in recent months 
have been among people who were unvaccinated.
In response to a reporter’s question, Walensky said that people who are fully vaccinated and experience symptoms 
of upper respiratory infections - runny nose, cough, sore throat - should get tested for the coronavirus. That has 
been the CDC guidance since May, but may not be widely known.
The delta variant is part of a growing list of coronavirus “variants of concern,” a designation given to variants no 
longer merely “of interest.” The World Health Organization switched to Greek letters earlier this year to help 
people differentiate variants that had been known as the B.1.1.7 (alpha), the B.1.351 (beta), the B.1.617.2 (delta) 
and so on. Virologists think it is possible that continued mutations in the virus will lead to a shortfall of Greek 
letters.
“If we continue to let the virus run loose, then yes, I’m certain we’ll run out of letters and future variants will 
likely be worse than the current crop - and yes, we’ll likely have several circulating at the same time,” Kristian 
Andersen, a professor in the department of immunology and microbiology at Scripps Research Institute, said in 
an email.
Each variant contains a unique suite of mutations. Some of those mutations enhance transmissibility. Some make 
the virus more evasive when faced with antibodies and other immune system cells.
As virologists try to understand these microscopic processes, the world is conducting an experiment on a grand 
scale, with most of the planet still unvaccinated and the virus circulating with limited obstacles. The evidence is -27-
clear: The long war against the coronavirus depends on the thoroughness and speed of the global vaccination 
effort.
“We need to vaccinate the world NOW with an all-out effort led by the United States,” Andersen wrote in the 
email.
Michael Worobey, a University of Arizona virologist, agrees the virus has not run out of moves: “We may never 
see the end of new variants. The virus is likely to become a fixture of human infectious disease, just like influenza 
viruses.”
It is increasingly clear that the virus - the precise origin of which remains unclear and the subject of fraught 
political and scientific debate - was not exquisitely adapted to human beings when it began to spread person to 
person. All viruses mutate, and SARS-CoV-2 does not mutate particularly fast. But as it spread around the world, 
it had abundant opportunities to evolve.
One strain, with a mutation called D614G, emerged early in the pandemic and boosted the virus’s ability to infect 
people by roughly 20 percent. That mutation is now seen in almost every sample of SARS-CoV-2.
The alpha variant is roughly 50 percent more transmissible than the D614G strain. The delta variant, in turn, is 
believed to be 60 percent more transmissible than the alpha variant, according to the study in Nature.
For now, the evolution of the coronavirus has been driven largely by mutations that enhance its ability to bind to 
cells or grow in those cells. A secondary strategy of evading antibodies has been seen in several variants and may 
become more significant over time as immunity builds in the human population, said Jesse Bloom, a virologist at 
the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.
“We’ve seen the virus evolving to get better and better at human transmission. I would expect that process will 
sort of plateau,” Bloom said. “But I don’t think the evolution will stop. Because I think there is a sort of endless 
potential for the virus to get mutations to escape from antibodies.”
--Lindsey Bever and Carolyn Y. Johnson contributed to this report
RETURN TO TOP-28-
EXECUTIVE/LEGISLATIVE
9. Lawmakers Mull Pentagon Contracting ‘Remedy’ After JEDI Blunder
Bloomberg News, July 8 (1247) | Chris Cornillie
Key House lawmakers vowed to consider changes to the Pentagon’s arcane technology buying process after senior 
Defense Department officials canceled its flagship cloud computing program.
“All options are on the table,” House Armed Services Committee ranking member Rep. Mike Rogers (R-Ala.) 
told Bloomberg Government on Thursday.
On July 6, the Pentagon announced it would terminate the $10 billion Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure 
(JEDI) cloud contract awarded to Microsoft Corp. The move marks an inauspicious end to an embattled program 
delayed by more than two years.
The cancellation “highlights a serious flaw in the acquisition process,” Rogers said in an email. “Moving DOD 
to enterprise cloud has already taken multiple years and now the process has been further delayed,” he said. “We 
must move quicker than the glacial pace we are on now.”
Rogers, who became the top-ranking Republican on the House Armed Services Committee in January, reserved 
his harshest criticism for contractors who are perceived to abuse the contracting process with “frivolous protests 
and litigation.”
“There must be repercussions for those that protest an award and then lose their protest,” he said. “I intend to 
remedy this problem.”
Rogers declined to discuss specifics, but the committee’s options include holding hearings, requesting a 
Government Accountability Office study, or even drafting legislation to amend federal acquisition regulations.
Rep. Jim Langevin (D-R.I.), who chairs the House Subcommittee on Cyber, Innovative Technologies, and 
Information Systems, said he had “deep reservations” about the bid protests that ground to a halt the military’s 
ability to field its enterprise cloud.
“JEDI was mired in lawsuits from the very beginning,” he said. “We need to take a long, hard look at the minimum 
threshold for a protest going forward.”
Two Years in Legal Limbo-29-
For the Pentagon, high-performance computing is seen as foundational for advances in artificial intelligence and 
key to preserving the U.S. military’s technological advantage.
Even before the Pentagon awarded JEDI in October 2019, the $10 billion contract faced multiple bid protests by 
competitors Oracle Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. After the nonpartisan GAO dismissed its 
protest, Oracle filed suit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The company appealed to a higher court after a 
federal judge ruled that the company lacked standing to contest the case. Oracle even petitioned the U.S. Supreme 
Court to hear its case in February. The court has not yet decided whether to take up the case.
Shortly after losing out to Microsoft in its bid for JEDI, Amazon Web Services Inc. filed suit in federal court, 
alleging then-President Donald Trump had intervened in the contracting process to spite Amazon chief executive 
Jeff Bezos. Pentagon officials denied the claims and warned Congress in late January that if Amazon’s political 
interference case were allowed to proceed, it “might bring the future of the JEDI Cloud procurement into 
question.” An April ruling in favor of Amazon paved the way for perhaps another year of costly and embarrassing 
litigation. On Tuesday, Pentagon officials denied the ongoing litigation played a role in the decision to cancel 
JEDI.
Amazon stands by its legal challenge, claiming the contracting process that resulted in an award to Microsoft was 
not a fair one. The outcome “was not based on the merits of the proposals,” said spokesman Drew Herdener, but 
instead “the result of outside interference that has no place in government procurement.”
A New Beginning?
Immediately after announcing the JEDI cloud program had been terminated, Pentagon officials pivoted to finding 
its replacement. The DOD will split its enterprise computing needs between Microsoft and Amazon under a new 
program, dubbed the Joint Warfighter Cloud Capability (JWCC), said acting DOD chief information officer John 
Sherman.
The Pentagon’s decision to abandon JEDI’s winner-take-all approach in favor of a multivendor, multicloud 
strategy may prove the best way to jump-start its move to the cloud. But it’s not without its own risks, Langevin 
stressed.
“Without proper oversight and a design that prioritizes interoperability and security, we’re going to be stitching 
together a multivendor cloud that doesn’t meet the warfighters’ requirements and is vulnerable to our adversaries,”
he said.
Having determined that Microsoft and Amazon are the only two cloud companies capable of meeting the 
Pentagon’s cloud needs, officials will essentially hand over contracts without an upfront competition. The 
department aims to hold a competitive rebidding process in early 2025, Sherman said. Meanwhile, Pentagon -30-
officials will spend the next three months conducting market research to determine whether other major U.S. 
cloud companies — Oracle, IBM, and Google Inc. — should receive awards as well.
Despite his concerns with JEDI, Langevin said he remains confident in the Pentagon’s ability to acquire the cloud 
capabilities it needs through competitive processes. “This is a desperately needed capability that we can’t continue 
to delay,” he said.
RETURN TO TOP
10. Justice Dept. Debates Due Process Rights for Guantánamo Bay Detainees
A court case is said to have prompted an internal dispute over whether to say that wartime prisoners at the 
naval base have due process rights
New York Times, July 9 (0300), Pg. A11 | Charlie Savage and Carol Rosenberg
WASHINGTON -- The Biden administration legal team is divided over whether the government should say that 
detainees at the American naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, have due process rights under the Constitution, 
according to people familiar with internal deliberations.
The Justice Department is set to file a brief by Friday night that is supposed to take a position on that question for 
a case involving a 53-year-old Yemeni man, Abdulsalam al-Hela, who has been held without charge or trial at 
the wartime prison since 2004. During the Trump administration, the department had argued to an appeals court 
panel that he had no due process rights.
The case is now before the full Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Legal scholars and lawyers 
for other detainees -- including those charged at a military commission -- have closely watched the case because 
it has squarely raised a legal and human rights issue that years of litigation over Guantánamo have yet to answer.
Lawyers in national security roles across the executive branch are said to have been arguing for weeks over what 
the brief should say. Some Justice Department officials -- including career government lawyers who have spent 
years under administrations of both parties defending Guantánamo detention policies in court -- are wary of taking 
a position that could make it harder to win such cases.
But other officials contend that it would clash with the Biden administration’s values not to clearly say that 
detainees have due process rights. The question first arose when the George W. Bush administration began taking 
wartime prisoners to the naval base in 2002 and claimed that courts had no jurisdiction and that the Geneva 
Conventions did not apply there, leading critics to call it a legal black hole.
The Constitution’s due process clause says no one can be “deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process 
of law.” What process is “due” is not always clear. But if the clause protects the detainees, then they would have 
a greater basis to ask courts to intervene over how the government treats them across a range of matters --
including their continued detention, medical treatment and what evidence could be used in commission trials.-31-
The officials familiar with internal deliberations spoke on the condition of anonymity, but the disagreement partly 
spilled out of the executive branch this week. A top Senate Democrat -- Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the 
chairman of the Judiciary Committee and his party’s No. 2 leader in the chamber -- sent a letter to Attorney 
General Merrick B. Garland urging him to direct the department to say that detainees have such rights.
“It is well past time for the department to reconsider its approach to the applicability of the basic safeguards of 
due process to the men who remain imprisoned without charge or trial at Guantánamo, as well as other positions 
that help perpetuate this moral stain upon our nation,” Mr. Durbin wrote.
For now, however, Elizabeth B. Prelogar, the acting solicitor general who will sign the brief, is primarily handling 
the issue. Mr. Garland is said to have recused himself from playing any role in the litigation; he was until recently 
a judge on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and participated in cases involving 
Guantánamo detainees.
In a three-judge panel ruling in August, two conservative judges on the appeals court used Mr. Hela’s case to 
declare that the Constitution’s due process clause does not apply to non-Americans held there, as the Trump 
administration had argued. (A third judge on the panel, also a Republican appointee, opposed making the 
sweeping claim about due process rights, saying it was unnecessary to conclude that holding Mr. Hela was lawful.)
Then in April, the full Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit -- which is controlled by more liberalleaning judges -- vacated that panel ruling and decided to rehear his case. It gave the Biden Justice Department 
until Friday to file a brief on its position.
The Biden legal team is wrestling with essentially three options in the Hela case. It could stick to the Trump-era 
position that Guantánamo detainees like Mr. Hela have no due process rights.
Second, it could withdraw that position but take no clear position on the question. Or it could affirmatively say 
that the due process clause covers detainees -- and urge the full appeals court to say so in its ruling.
The outcome of the debate appears unlikely to help Mr. Hela. Biden administration officials broadly agree that it 
is lawful for the government to keep holding him either way. Moreover, the government already has decided that 
it does not want to hold Mr. Hela perpetually: Last month, a six-agency parole-like board recommended his 
transfer if a country can be found to resettle him, with his wife, in a secure arrangement.
The dilemma about what to say in the brief is one of several national security legal policy problems involving 
Guantánamo litigation confronting the Biden legal team -- which is still only partly staffed by Senate-confirmed 
political appointees.-32-
Last week, for example, Ms. Prelogar decided to file a Supreme Court brief that pressed forward with a Trumpera position in another case centering on a prominent Guantánamo detainee best known as Abu Zubaydah. It 
argued that the court should overturn a Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling related to disclosures about his 
torture at a C.I.A. black site prison because courts should defer to the view of President Donald J. Trump’s former 
C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, that the matter risked divulging state secrets.
The decision on the due process clause could also have a ripple effect on other matters.
This week, government lawyers obtained a two-week delay from a review court to present a position on a defense 
challenge to a decision by a judge in the military commissions case involving the 2000 bombing of the naval 
destroyer Cole. That decision permitted prosecutors, in a pretrial filing, to use something the defendant said while 
being tortured by the C.I.A., which his lawyers say violates due process.
And more broadly, defense lawyers in that and other commissions cases, including the capital case against five 
men accused of conspiring in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, have peppered pretrial litigation with objections based 
on due process claims -- even as prosecutors at Guantánamo have maintained that the clause does not apply to 
the tribunals process.
“Because the accused are alien enemy belligerents without property or presence in the United States, the due 
process clause does not extend to them,” prosecutors in the Sept. 11 case wrote in February 2020.
RETURN TO TOP
11. U.S. Intelligence Agencies Turn to Scientists for Help
American intelligence agencies are tapping outside expertise as they wrestle with mysteries that are as much 
about science as they are about espionage
New York Times, July 9 (0200), Pg. A12 | Julian E. Barnes
WASHINGTON -- The nation’s intelligence agencies are looking for ways to increase their expertise in a range 
of scientific disciplines as they struggle to answer unexplained questions -- about the origins of the coronavirus 
pandemic, unidentified phenomenon observed by Navy pilots and mysterious health ailments affecting spies and 
diplomats around the world.
Traditional spycraft has failed to make significant progress on those high-profile inquiries, and many officials 
have grown convinced that they require a better marriage of intelligence gathering and scientific examination.
Intelligence officials in the Biden administration came into office pledging to work on areas traditionally 
dominated by science, like studying the national security implications of climate change and future pandemics. 
But as the other issues have cropped up, the spy agencies have had to confront questions that are as much scientific 
mysteries as they are challenges of traditional intelligence collection.-33-
The White House has given the intelligence community until later this summer to report the results of a deep dive 
into the origins of the coronavirus, including an examination of the theory that it was accidentally leaked from a 
Chinese lab studying the virus as well as the prevailing view that it was transmitted from animals to humans 
outside a lab.
The administration has also pledged to Congress to make progress on determining the cause of mysterious health 
ailments on diplomats and intelligence officers, known as Havana syndrome. And finally, a preliminary inquiry 
into unidentified flying objects and other phenomena failed to explain almost all of the mysterious encounters by 
military aviators that intelligence analysts had scrutinized, prompting intelligence officials to promise a followup in the next three months.
To bolster the role of scientific expertise, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence brought an 
experienced epidemiologist from the State Department’s intelligence and research division to serve on the 
National Intelligence Council, according to intelligence and other government officials. The office has also 
created two national intelligence manager posts, one to look at climate change and the other to examine disruptive 
technology, intelligence officials said.
The National Security Council, working with the C.I.A. and the director of national intelligence, has established 
a pair of outside panels to study Havana syndrome, whose symptoms include dizziness, fatigue and sudden 
memory loss. Outside scientists with security clearances will be able to view classified intelligence to better 
understand what may have caused the brain injuries.
The work reflects “a broader priority on science and technology,” a White House official said.
One panel will focus on possible causes. The other is charged with helping develop devices that could better 
protect personnel, according to an administration official.
Scientific might has been vitally important to modern American intelligence agencies since their beginnings. 
Throughout the Cold War, scientists paired with intelligence analysts to examine adversaries’ nuclear missile 
development and chemical and biological weapons programs. The agencies have also cultivated deep engineering 
talent as they built spy satellites and reconnaissance aircraft and devised tools to intercept a wide range of 
communications.
But the recent intelligence challenges have required a different range of scientific expertise, including some areas 
that agencies have invested fewer resources in over the years.
“This is a really interesting moment where the national security interests have changed from some of the Cold 
War interests,” said Sue Gordon, a former top intelligence official. “Priorities are changing now.”-34-
Faced not only with the immediate unsolved security questions, but also with the longer-term challenge of 
improving intelligence collection on climate change, Avril D. Haines, the director of national intelligence, has 
pushed agencies to more aggressively recruit undergraduate and graduate students with an extensive range of 
scientific knowledge.
“The D.N.I. believes that the changing threat landscape requires the intelligence community to develop and invest 
in a talented work force that includes individuals with science and technology backgrounds,” said Matt Lahr, a 
spokesman for Ms. Haines. “Without such expertise, we will not only be unable to compete, we will not succeed 
in addressing the challenges we face today.”
Officials are also trying to make broader use of existing initiatives. For example, Ms. Haines’s office has been 
more aggressively questioning its science and technology expert group, a collection of some 500 scientists who 
volunteer to help intelligence agencies answer scientific problems.
Officials have asked those scientists about how coronaviruses mutate as well as about climate change and the 
availability of natural resources. While the scientists in the expert group do not perform intelligence analysis, 
their answers can help such analysts inside agencies draw more accurate conclusions, intelligence officials said.
In other cases, the efforts to bring in outside expertise is new.
During the Trump administration, the State Department commissioned the National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering and Medicine to examine Havana syndrome. Its report concluded that a microwave weapon was a 
likely cause of many of the episodes but was hampered in part because of a lack of access to information; scientists 
were not given the full range of material collected by the intelligence agencies, officials said.
Outside scientists on the two new panels will have security clearances enabling them to look at the full range of 
material. The “driving purpose” of the panels is to give them access to classified information that was denied 
under previous studies, a White House official said.
Intelligence officials and government experts will also serve on the panels. McClatchy earlier reported on their 
creation.
The administration will also bring in medical experts in traumatic brain injury and technical experts on weapons 
systems and directed-energy devices to examine the potential causes of the health episodes, according to the 
administration official.
The government is examining some 130 episodes, though officials concede that some could eventually be set 
aside if their causes are determined and appear to be unrelated to Havana syndrome.-35-
A number of victims had criticized the government’s handling of the issue, saying too few officials took it 
seriously. While some officials have remained skeptical, inside the C.I.A. the syndrome has become a top priority 
of William J. Burns, its director, who pushed for the new panels.
“As part of our ongoing vigorous efforts to determine the cause of these anomalous health incidents, we look 
forward to working with top scientists and experts inside and outside government on this panel,” Mr. Burns said 
in a statement.
While scientific research has been a strength of American intelligence agencies, Ms. Gordon said, the current 
problems may require a different approach, bringing in more people from outside and working more with socalled open source information, including raw data collected by scientists but not always examined independently 
by intelligence agencies.
“I do think that they will probably approach it slightly differently than they might have in the past,” Ms. Gordon 
said, “with a little bit more openness.”
RETURN TO TOP
12. Biden rescue plan for Afghan allies welcomed by lawmakers, some still concerned it’s not fast enough
Washington Times Online, July 8 (1831) | Joseph Clark
Some lawmakers were skeptical, others cautiously optimistic, when President Biden announced Thursday plans 
to begin evacuating Afghan interpreters and other allies as the U.S. military complete a pullout by the end of next 
month.
Mr. Biden said flights will begin later this month to relocate those who have applied for Special Immigrant Visas, 
a State Department program designed for U.S. enablers, to third countries outside to await approval to come to 
America.
“There is a home for you in the United States if you so choose, and we will stand with you just as you stood with 
us,” the president said.
The administration faced growing pressure to provide a safe haven for the Afghan allies, who are in danger of 
deadly reprisals by the Taliban when U.S. troops leave.
A State Department visa process has been ensnared in a backlog of close to 18,000 applicants from Afghanistan, 
which was estimated to take until next year to process.
Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, New Hampshire Democrat, welcomed President Biden’s announcement but said she 
remains concerned.-36-
“I’m very encouraged by President Biden’s effort to get our Afghan allies out of harm’s way, but I remain deeply 
concerned by the deteriorating conditions in Afghanistan,” Mrs. Shaheen, New Hampshire Democrat, said in a 
statement.
“It is critical that there is a clear plan in place in the days, weeks, and months ahead to maintain the progress made 
to advance women’s rights and to ensure the safety of our allies who risked their lives, and the safety of their 
families support of the U.S. mission,” she said.
Rep. Mike Rogers of Alabama, the top Republican on the Armed Services Committee, said Mr. Biden failed to 
provide details and a clear path forward.
“Nowhere in his speech did the president address how to protect Americans that will remain in the country, nor 
did he address the Taliban’s deadly resurgence, and we are still waiting to hear how exactly Biden will help the 
Afghans that stood alongside our service members,” he said.
Rep. Michael T. McCaul of Texas, the top Republican on the Foreign Affairs Committee, said he is still not 
confident the administration has a full grasp of the situation as troops withdraw.
“The Taliban is gaining more ground by the day, and there are targets on the backs of our people and our partners,” 
said Mr. McCaul. “But rather than taking the opportunity to reassure the American people there are sufficient 
plans in place to keep American diplomats and our Afghan partners safe, President Biden only offered more 
empty promises and no detailed plan of action.”
The administration said last month that it is preparing to relocate thousands of interpreters and others at risk of 
Taliban retaliation for their work for the U.S. during the nearly 20-year war, but provided few specifics.
Rep. Seth Moulton, Massachusetts Democrat and a Marine veteran who served in the Iraq War, called on the 
administration to provide detail and to appoint a leadership team to get the job done.
During the announcement Thursday, Mr. Biden confirmed that he had appointed a point-person at the White 
House and at the State Department to coordinate the effort.
Kim Staffieri, founder of the Association of Wartime Allies, an organization that advocates for interpreters 
awaiting visa approval, said she still has concerns following President Biden’s announcement. She said the 
Special Immigrant Visa process has been broken for years, and with the administration continuing to rely on it to 
facilitate the evacuation, she worries many interpreters will still be overlooked.
She also remained adamant that the applicants should be evacuated to the U.S. rather than a third country while 
they wait. She said a significant portion of applicants are denied on their first review and must go through a -37-
lengthy appeal process. There is no guarantee, she said, that the countries will not send them back to await the 
appeal.
Mr. Biden said during his announcement that his administration had worked to accelerate the Special Immigrant 
Visa approval process and 2,500 have already been approved under his administration.
“Up until now, fewer than half have exercised their right to do that,” Mr. Biden said. “Half have gotten on 
commercial flights and come, and the other half believe they want to stay, at least thus far.”
Ms. Staffieri said those that have been approved but have not yet taken the flight are likely unable to afford the 
airfare and are awaiting approval to purchase tickets through a loan program administered by the International 
Organization for Migration, which is normally approved weeks if not months after the visa is approved.
“They don’t have $7,000 set aside to make the trip to the U.S.,” she said.
She added that Mr. Biden’s description of the circumstance as a choice on behalf of the visa recipient shows a 
disregard for the reality of the situation.
RETURN TO TOP
AFGHANISTAN-PAKISTAN
13. Militia commanders rush to aid Afghan forces against Taliban
Reuters, July 8 (2312) | Not Attributed
KABUL -- A prominent anti-Taliban commander with private militia will help Afghan forces in their fight against 
Taliban insurgents to claw back control over parts of western Afghanistan including a border crossing with Iran, 
local officials said on Friday.
A key district in Herat province, home to tens of thousands of minority Shi’ite Hazaras was captured by fighters 
of the hardline Sunni Muslim insurgent group on Thursday as part of their strategy to oust Afghan forces and hold 
sway over critical border towns and trade routes.
A former minister Mohammad Ismail Khan and a survivor of a Taliban attack in 2009 was a key member of the 
Northern Alliance whose militia helped U.S. forces in toppling the Taliban in 2001.
Known as the Lion of Herat, Ismail Khan a veteran Tajik commander is scheduled to hold a gathering to prepare 
his forces to fight against the Taliban and defend his power base in Herat, an official said, adding that several 
erstwhile anti-Taliban commanders were supporting the over-stretched Afghan forces to defend borders in the 
West and the North.-38-
Taliban and Afghan government officials were not immediately available to share details about the intense clashes 
in Herat.
Political members of the Taliban visiting Moscow assured Russian officials of their commitment to allow foreign 
embassies and aid groups to operate in Afghanistan even after the final exit of foreign forces.
“All borders now in IEA (Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan) control will remain open and functional. We assure 
all, we are not going to target diplomats, embassies and consulates, NGOs and their staff,” said Suhail Shaheen, 
a spokesman for the Taliban in a tweet.
U.S. President Joe Biden has strongly defended his decision to pull military forces out of Afghanistan despite 
large parts of country being overrun by the Taliban saying the Afghan people must decide their own future and 
that he would not consign another generation of Americans to the 20-year war.
Biden set a target date of Aug. 31 for the final withdrawal of U.S. forces, minus about 650 troops to provide 
security for the U.S. embassy in Kabul.
A long-time sceptic of the U.S. and NATO military presence in Afghanistan, Biden said the United States had 
long ago achieved its original rationale for invading the country in 2001: to root out al-Qaeda militants and prevent 
another attack on the United States like the one launched on Sept.11, 2001. The mastermind of that attack, Osama 
bin Laden, was killed by a U.S. military team in neighbouring Pakistan in 2011.
--Reporting by Kabul bureau
RETURN TO TOP
14. Reports: Taliban seize key Afghan border crossing with Iran
Associated Press, July 8 (1511) | Hamed Sarfarazi and Rahim Faiez
HERAT, Afghanistan -- The Taliban on Thursday seized another key Afghan border crossing, this time with Iran, 
according to an Afghan official and Iranian media. The seizure is part of a Taliban surge as American troops 
complete their pullout from Afghanistan.
It was the third border crossing the insurgents have taken in the past week, after previously seizing crossings with 
Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. The development came as President Joe Biden said the U.S. military mission in 
Afghanistan will conclude on Aug. 31.
The Taliban wins have caused some countries to close their consulates in the region, while Tajikistan has called 
up reservists to reinforce that country’s southern border with Afghanistan.-39-
An Afghan official said the Taliban on Thursday took control the Islam Qala crossing point in western Herat 
province. The official, who is in Herat, spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to release 
the information to reporters.
Afghan soldiers in the border area of Islam Qala — a major transit route between Afghanistan and Iran — fled 
from their positions, crossing into Iran for refuge, Iranian media reported. The crossing is around 120 kilometers 
(75 miles) west of the city of Herat, the provincial capital.
Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid tweeted to confirm the taking of Islam Qala and said that Taliban fighters 
entered the Islam Qala town itself, and were greeted warmly by the local residents. Mujahid also posted a video 
purporting to show Taliban riding on the back of trucks in Islam Qala and shooting off into the air in celebration 
as a crowd of men cheered on.
Afghanistan has seen a Taliban surge as the American and NATO pullout stepped up over the past few months. 
On Tuesday, the U.S. Central Command said 90% of the withdrawal of U.S. troops and equipment from 
Afghanistan is complete. The U.S. says the last troops will be gone by August.
On Sunday, the Taliban seized control of several districts from fleeing Afghan forces, several hundred of whom 
fled across the border into Tajikistan.
Since mid-April, when Biden announced the end to Afghanistan’s “forever war,” the Taliban have made strides 
throughout the country. On Thursday, Biden said he didn’t trust the Taliban but trusted the capacity of the Afghan 
military to defend the government. He also urged the Afghan government to reach a peace deal with the Taliban.
But their most significant gains have been in the north, a traditional stronghold of the U.S.-allied warlords who 
helped defeat the Taliban in 2001. In Badakhshan province, many districts fell without a fight. The consulates of 
Turkey and Russia have reportedly closed in Mazar-e-Sharif, the capital of northern Balkh province, and 
Afghanistan’s fourth-largest city.
The Taliban now control roughly a third of all 421 districts and district centers in Afghanistan. Their victories are 
also putting pressure on provincial cities and taking away government control of key transportation routes.
Islam Qala made headlines in February, when a massive fire erupted following an explosion of a fuel tanker. At 
least 20 people were injured and hundreds of trucks lined up at the crossing carrying natural gas and fuel were 
engulfed in the blaze. It took firefighters from both countries three days to put out. There was no suggestion of 
Taliban involvement in the explosion.
--Faiez reported from Kabul, Afghanistan. Associated Press writer Nasser Karimi in Tehran, Iran, contributed 
to this report
RETURN TO TOP -40-
15. Afghanistan’s Taliban, Now on China’s Border, Seek to Reassure Beijing
Despite past support for Uyghur militants in Xinjiang, Taliban say they won’t interfere in China’s internal 
affairs
Wall Street Journal Online, July 8 (0915) | Yaroslav Trofimov and Chao Deng
After seizing about one-third of Afghanistan’s districts in this summer’s offensive, the Taliban this week swept 
through the northeastern Badakhshan province, reaching the mountainous border with China’s Xinjiang region.
Considering the Taliban’s historical connections with Xinjiang’s Uyghur militant groups affiliated with al Qaeda, 
this advance would have caused alarm to Beijing in the past. These days, however, the Taliban go out of their 
way to assuage China’s concerns, eager to secure Beijing’s acquiescence to their rule.
“The Taliban want to show China good will,” said Qian Feng, head of research at the National Strategy Institute 
of Tsinghua University in Beijing. “They hope that China can play a more important role, especially after America 
pulls out its troops.”
With the American military withdrawal nearly complete, China’s clout in the region is growing, in part through 
Beijing’s strategic relationship with the Taliban’s main backer, Pakistan. China is also becoming increasingly 
influential in the Central Asian states that border Afghanistan to the north. Aware of Beijing’s sensibilities, all 
these countries have long steered clear of condemning the mass incarceration of fellow Muslims in Xinjiang and 
other human-rights abuses there.
While the Taliban aren’t as silent on the issue, they strike a fine balance between their commitment to global 
Islamic causes and convincing Beijing that a Taliban government in Kabul wouldn’t threaten China’s stability. A 
recent U.S. intelligence assessment estimated that the current Afghan government could fall to the insurgency as 
soon as six months after the American pullout.
“We care about the oppression of Muslims, be it in Palestine, in Myanmar, or in China, and we care about the 
oppression of non-Muslims anywhere in the world. But what we are not going to do is interfere in China’s internal 
affairs,” said a senior Taliban official in Doha, Qatar, where the group’s political office is based.
Another official, Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen, pointed out that the Islamist group pledged in the February 
2020 Doha deal with Washington to not let the country’s territory be used against other nations, and to not accept 
any refugees or exiles outside the framework of international migration law.
“We will not allow anyone—whether it is an individual or an entity—to use the soil of Afghanistan against the 
United States, its allies, or any other country, and that includes China,” Mr. Shaheen said.-41-
While caring about the plight of the Uyghurs of Xinjiang, the Taliban will seek to help their fellow Muslims 
through political dialogue with Beijing, he added. “We do not know the details. But if we have the details, we 
will show our concern,” he said. “If there are some problems with the Muslims, of course we will talk with the 
Chinese government.”
Asked whether a Taliban-dominated government of Afghanistan would join Western nations in condemning 
human-rights abuses in Xinjiang at the United Nations, Mr. Shaheen demurred. Any such decision would have to 
be made based on the ground realities at that time, he said.
Taliban connections with the Uyghur militants, particularly the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and its 
successor, the Turkestan Islamic Party, go back to the days when Osama bin Laden was based in Afghanistan, 
plotting the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. While many of these Uyghur militants moved to Syria in recent years, last 
year’s United Nations Security Council report estimated that some 500 members of ETIM remain in Afghanistan, 
mostly in the Reghistan and Warduj districts of Badakhshan province. The Trump administration last year 
removed ETIM’s designation as a terrorist organization, to Beijing’s fury.
China has used the existence of extremist groups like TIP to justify its crackdown in Xinjiang, including the 
incarceration of more than a million Muslims in what it calls vocational training camps. No significant terrorist 
incidents have been reported in Xinjiang since 2017.
All of Badakhshan’s districts except for the provincial capital are now under Taliban control, with more than 
1,000 government troops fleeing across the border to Tajikistan in recent days. Seized by the Taliban this week, 
Badakhshan’s northeastern Wakhan district shares a 60-mile-long border with China. It is mostly impassable 
high-altitude terrain, with no cross-border road connection. However, the province’s porous and lightly defended 
border with Tajikistan provides passage routes into Xinjiang—one reason why China has deployed troops in 
Tajikistan in recent years.
While professing support for the government of President Ashraf Ghani in Kabul, Beijing has long called for the 
withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan and repeatedly hosted Taliban delegations, including a 2019 visit by 
the head of the Taliban political office, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. Earlier this year, China offered to host 
intra-Afghan peace talks.
The Taliban “believe they can take over again, and so they want to build more friendly relations with their 
neighbors,” said Li Wei, a security and arms control researcher at the think tank affiliated with China’s Ministry 
of State Security, the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations. “They also don’t want to see 
Afghanistan become a breeding ground for international terrorism.”
Not everyone agrees with such optimistic assessments. Rohan Gunaratna, international terrorism expert at the 
Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, said he expected the Taliban to resume supporting Uyghur 
militants—especially now that many of these fighters are seeking to return to Afghanistan from Syria.-42-
“The Taliban was their principal host. They have had a very close relationship,” Mr. Gunaratna said. “With the 
U.S. troop withdrawal, the Taliban will become what they were before because the Taliban ideology has not 
significantly changed. Afghanistan will once again emerge as a terrorist Disneyland, where all these foreign 
terrorist groups will build a formidable presence.”
The Afghan government has long sought to cultivate such fears, and is wooing China now that American forces 
are largely gone, touting economic opportunities in its mining sector and potentially lucrative transit routes.
Though China has made some investments in Afghanistan’s natural resources, the continuing violence makes 
major Chinese economic involvement unlikely in the foreseeable future.
In Sept. 2019, months before the coronavirus pandemic began, Chinese, Afghan and Pakistani foreign ministers 
agreed in principle to extend the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor into Afghanistan, with a highway connection 
from the Pakistani city of Peshawar to Kabul. It remains little more than a proposal at this stage. “The Chinese 
government is not in a hurry to push forward with this,” said Mr. Qian of Tsinghua University. “There’s not an 
urgent need.”
RETURN TO TOP
16. Russia-led bloc ready to act if Afghan border unravels, Taliban reassures Moscow
Reuters, July 8 (1311) | Not Attributed
MOSCOW -- The Russian-led CSTO military bloc said on Thursday it was ready to mobilise its full capacity if 
the situation on Tajikistan’s border with Afghanistan deteriorated as a Taliban delegation in Moscow told Russia 
it did not pose a threat to the region.
Foreign forces, including the United States, are withdrawing after almost 20 years of fighting, a move that has 
emboldened the Taliban to try to gain fresh territory in Afghanistan
That has prompted hundreds of Afghan security personnel and refugees to flee across the border into neighbouring 
Tajikistan and raised fears in Moscow and other capitals that Islamist extremists could infiltrate Central Asia, a 
region Russia views as its backyard.
The CSTO, the six-nation Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) dominated by Russia, said on 
Thursday it was ready to use all its resources if necessary to contain a crisis on the border between Afghanistan 
and Tajikistan, the Interfax news agency reported.
The U.S. exit from Afghanistan is a headache for Moscow which fears spiralling fighting may push refugees into 
Central Asia, create a jihadist threat and even stir civil war in one ex-Soviet state, a former Russian diplomat and 
two analysts have told Reuters.-43-
Russia operates its biggest foreign military base in Tajikistan close to the Afghan border and Moscow has already 
pledged to help Dushanbe if needed. Interfax cited the CSTO as saying that military contingents from other 
member countries were not yet needed in the area however.
The CSTO’s statement came as a Taliban delegation in Moscow held talks with Russian officials and sought to 
reassure their hosts that the group would not attack the Tajik border or use Afghanistan as a platform in future to 
launch attacks against Russia itself.
Russia’s foreign ministry said in a statement it had told the Taliban delegation that it was concerned by escalating 
tensions in northern Afghanistan and did not want any fighting to spill over into other countries.
The ministry said it had received assurances from the Taliban that the group would not violate other countries’
borders in the region and that the Taliban had guaranteed the safety of foreign diplomatic missions inside 
Afghanistan.
It cited the Taliban as saying it wanted a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan and had promised to respect human 
rights, including those of woman, “within the framework of Islamic norms and Afghan traditions.”
It said the Taliban had also pledged to fight against the threat posed by Islamic State in Afghanistan and to uproot 
drug production.
--Reporting by Tom Balmforth/Moscow Bureau
RETURN TO TOP
17. Most UK troops now out of Afghanistan – Johnson
Agence France-Presse, July 8 (1110) | Not Attributed
Most of the remaining British troops assigned to the NATO mission in Afghanistan have left, Prime Minister 
Boris Johnson announced on Thursday, with the rest to come home shortly.
“All British troops assigned to NATO’s mission in Afghanistan are now returning home... I will not disclose the 
timetable of our departure, but I can tell the House that most of our personnel have already left,” he said in a 
statement to MPs.
Johnson on Wednesday said he was “apprehensive” about the future of Afghanistan as the United States 
announced that its withdrawal from the country was now more than 90 percent complete.
He stressed to MPs that it would take “the combined effort of many nations, including Afghanistan’s neighbours, 
to help Afghanistan build their future”.-44-
“But the threat that brought us to Afghanistan in the first place has been greatly diminished by the valour and the 
sacrifice of the armed forces of Britain and many other countries,” he said.
“We are safer because of everything they did.”
A total of 457 British troops died in action in Afghanistan after the country joined the US-led coalition 
intervention after the September 11, 2001 attacks in New York and Washington.
The conflict has cost the country around £40 billion ($55 billion, 46.7 billion euros).
In 2014, the British mission in Afghanistan, centred around the restive southern province of Helmand, shifted 
from a combat operation to one focused on supporting Afghan national forces, with the help of around 750 troops.
Fighting raged on Thursday between the Taliban and government forces in the northwestern province of Badghis, 
the first provincial capital to face an all-out assault by the Taliban since the US stepped up its troop withdrawal.
The government in Kabul responded by flying hundreds of commandos into the area.
Johnson demanded that the Taliban abide by its commitments to a peace deal signed last year.
“I am sure they will be aware there is no military path to victory for the Taliban,” he said.
“There must be a peaceful and a negotiated settlement for the political crisis.”
RETURN TO TOP
MIDDLE EAST
18. Drone attacks by Iraqi militias reflect Iran’s waning hold
Associated Press, July 9 (0212) | Qassim Abdul-Zahra and Samya Kullab
BAGHDAD -- Iran’s expeditionary Quds Force commander brought one main directive for Iraqi militia faction 
leaders long beholden to Tehran, when he gathered with them in Baghdad last month: Maintain calm, until after 
nuclear talks between Iran and the United States.
But he was met with defiance. One of the six faction leaders spoke up in their meeting: They could not stay quiet 
while the death of his predecessor Qassim Soleimani and senior Iraqi militia commander Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis 
in a U.S. drone strike went unavenged.-45-
Militia attacks have only been increasing against the U.S. in military bases in both Iraq and Syria. Three missile 
attacks in the last week alone resulted in minor injuries, stoking fears of escalation.
The details from Esmail Ghaani’s visit, confirmed to The Associated Press by three Shiite political officials and 
two senior militia officials, demonstrate how Iranian-aligned Iraqi militia groups are asserting a degree of 
independence, sometimes even flouting orders from Tehran. Iran now relies on Lebanon’s Hezbollah for support 
in reining them in, and there is potential that Iran’s new president could play a role in doing the same.
The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the private meetings.
Iran’s influence, sustained by ideological ties and military support, has frayed because of the U.S. killing of 
Soleimani and al-Muhandis last year, because of differing interests and because of financial strains in Tehran. 
With nuclear talks restarting following U.S. President Joe Biden’s inauguration this year, these differences have 
come to the fore.
“Iran isn’t the way it used to be, with 100% control over the militia commanders,” said one Shiite political leader.
Increasing rocket and drone attacks targeting American troops in Iraq and Syria have alarmed Western and 
coalition officials. There have been at least eight drone attacks targeting the U.S. presence since Biden took office 
in January, as well as 17 rocket attacks, according to coalition officials.
The attacks are blamed on the Iranian-backed militias that make up the bulk of Iraq’s state-supported Popular 
Mobilization Forces. The Biden administration has responded by twice targeting Iraqi militia groups operating 
inside Syria, including close to the Iraqi border.
“What is taking place now is when Ghaani asks for calm, the brigade leaders agree with him. But as soon as he 
leaves the meeting, they disregard his recommendations,” said another Shiite political leader.
The loudest of the defiant militia voices has been Qais al-Khazali, leader of the Asaib Ahl al-Haq faction, which 
also maintains a political party. On June 17, only days after Ghaani’s meetings with the militias, he said in a 
televised address that they would continue to target the U.S. “occupier” and that they will not take into 
consideration nuclear talks.
“And that decision is an Iraqi one,” he said.
The coalition has formally ended combat operations and reduced troop levels significantly in the last year. Only 
2,500 U.S. troops remain in Iraq and discussions are ongoing with NATO to transfer to an advisory mission. Iraq 
still needs coalition support in surveillance and intelligence gathering and airstrikes against Islamic State group 
targets.-46-
Some argue the ongoing attacks benefit Iran by maintaining pressure on the U.S.
During talks with Shiite political officials during his visit, Ghani said Iran doesn’t interfere in their political work, 
but that military matters were different. “These must be approved by the Revolutionary Guard,” one political 
leader recounted him saying.
Still, Ghaani did not reprimand the militia groups during the meeting. Instead, he told them he understood their 
concerns.
Iran has struggled to fill in the gap left in the absence of Soleimani and al-Muhandis, who were commanding 
figures able to push factions into line and resolve disputes among them.
“Ghaani has a different style and capabilities,” said Michael Knights, a fellow at The Washington Institute. He 
has a looser framework, establishing broad red lines on some matters, while “other things are ‘don’t ask, don’t 
tell,” he said.
Along with asking for less, cash-strapped Iran has been giving less as well. Assistance to the groups has been 
significantly downgraded since U.S. sanctions began crippling Iran’s economy last year.
Divisions among factions have deepened, with growing competition among militias and Shiite politicians.
Ghaani came to meet the militia leaders to mend tensions that were sparked weeks earlier when Iraqi authorities 
arrested a paramilitary commander, Qassim Musleh, prompting a standoff between PMF fighters and security 
forces. Ghaani brought a letter from Iran’s supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, criticizing the PMF for its reaction, 
saying it weakened their position.
To apply pressure on the factions, Iran has come to rely on Hezbollah leader Hasan Nasrallah in Lebanon, a figure 
the militias highly respect. Almost weekly, various factional leaders hold face-to-face meetings with him in 
Lebanon, said Shiite political leaders.
Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi, elected in June, also may be a unifying figure for the militias, which hold him 
in high esteem, political and militia officials said. When Raisi visited Baghdad in February, he met with PMF 
commanders and told them, in fluent Arabic, “Our flesh is your flesh, and our blood is your blood.” Ghaani 
communicates with brigade leaders through an interpreter.
“The resistance will grow in power and will see its best of times due to the election victory of Raisi,” said Abu 
Alaa al-Walae, commander of Kataib Sayyid al-Shuhada, in a recent interview.
--Associated Press writer Bassem Mroue contributed from Beirut
RETURN TO TOP-47-
CHINA
19. US urges China talks after reports of nuclear build-up
Agence France-Presse, July 8 (0954) | Nina Larson
The United States voiced deep concern on Thursday at reports that China is dramatically scaling up its nuclear 
arsenal, urging Beijing to engage in talks to avoid a global arms race.
“It is in everyone’s interest that nuclear powers talk to one another directly about reducing nuclear dangers and 
avoiding miscalculation,” Robert Wood, US ambassador to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, told 
reporters.
Last week, the Washington Post newspaper cited a study of satellite images that it said showed 119 silos for 
missiles were being built in a desert near the northwestern city of Yumen.
The silos, according to the report, were similar to existing Chinese launch facilities for nuclear-tipped ballistic 
missiles.
Wood said it was of “great concern”.
“Until China sits down with the United States bilaterally, the risk of a devastating arms race will continue to 
increase, and that is in the interest of no-one,” he said.
China, he said, claimed to be “a responsible nuclear power” with only a very small defensive arsenal.
“But when we see a lot of what China has been doing, it runs counter to what it has been saying.”
Wood highlighted a range of new systems China was believed to be looking to develop, including missiles capable 
of hitting the United States.
He said these kinds of systems had “great potential to change the entire dynamic of the global strategic stability 
situation”.
Wood said one of the biggest problems was a lack of transparency, since China does not divulge details about its 
arsenal.-48-
In its first public estimate of China’s nuclear capacity last year, the Pentagon said China appeared to have more 
than 200 nuclear warheads, and cautioned that Beijing seemed to be pushing to double that number within the 
next decade.
“We say that the nuclear weapons programme is likely to double its stockpiles in the next 10 years, but it could 
be greater than that,” Wood warned.
“Without it sitting at the table, it’s hard to say what China is actually doing.”
China’s estimated stockpile still remains a far cry from the more than 11,000 nuclear warheads owned by the 
United States and Russia put together.
But Wood dismissed arguments that before any discussions with China could take place, the world’s two largest 
nuclear powers should shrink their arsenals to China’s level.
“With the US and Russia, we’ve had, over the years, frameworks for addressing these issues,” he said.
“We don’t have such frameworks with China.”
RETURN TO TOP
20. U.S. intel chief claims growing risk of Chinese hit on neighbor
Taiwan among targets
Washington Times, July 9 (0300), Pg. A1 | Bill Gertz
China’s growing military power in Asia has increased the danger Beijing will launch a war against a neighboring 
state, with Taiwan just one of several likely future targets, the admiral in charge of intelligence for the Pentagon’s 
Indo-Pacific Command warned this week.
Rear Adm. Mike Studeman, the top intelligence officer, or J-2, for the East Asian command, said in a conference 
Wednesday that U.S. military forces are bolstering arms and equipment for when conflict could break out in the 
region over Taiwan or another American ally or partner.
“What are we warning about: It’s danger on all fronts,” Adm. Studeman told an online conference via telephone 
from the command’s headquarters in Hawaii. “This idea that it’s only a Taiwan scenario vs. many other areas 
where the Chinese are being highly assertive, coercive, is a failure in understanding complexity, because it’s not 
that simple.”
Adm. Studeman said it would be a mistake to wait to act until intelligence agencies receive a warning that China 
is preparing to launch an amphibious assault against Taiwan, the island nation China’s Communist leaders have 
vowed to reunite with the mainland.-49-
“That is one scenario and, frankly, it may not be the most likely,” he said. China’s Communist regime is placing 
pressure on “lots of its neighbors.”
China in recent months has engaged in disputes with India, Australia, Japan, Taiwan and countries around the 
South China Sea in what analysts say is an increase in bullying by Beijing. In the past, the leaders of the ruling 
Chinese Communist Party sought to avoid multiple entanglements with neighbors and the new assertiveness is 
seen as a sign of China’s growing power and military confidence.
Regarding Taiwan, China has engaged in low-intensity conflict against the island that has increased the dangers 
across the 100-mile-wide Taiwan Strait. The campaign has involved information operations and economic 
pressure, Adm. Studeman said.
“It’s already a struggle underway,” he said. “Whether or not the Chinese resort to a military option is in question. 
To us, it’s only a matter of time, not a matter of ‘if,’ because if you understand the problem set, you understand 
that Taiwan will unlikely fold based on economic, and informational and diplomatic influence alone.”
The admiral was reflecting earlier comments by the former and current chiefs of the Indo-Pacific Command, who 
said in testimony to Congress earlier this year that China appears to be preparing for a move against Taiwan by 
2030 or before. Adm. Studeman said the United States needs to approach countering China with the same type of 
effort used against the Soviet Union during the Cold War.
“And we’re not there yet as a nation in understanding how to in fact employ our energy, our treasure to be able 
to grapple with” the danger, he said.
“Much of what we do,” he added, “is internal to us — ensuring that people are ready for a very bad day” if war 
breaks out.
‘Too late’
Adm. Studeman said naval intelligence officials sum up the current situation with China in two words used by 
Gen. Douglas McArthur in discussing the failure to head off World War II.
“Too late,” Adm. Studeman said. “Too late in comprehending the deadly purpose of a potential enemy. Too late 
in realizing the mortal danger. Too late in preparedness. Too late in uniting all possible forces for resistance.”
The command’s intelligence unit has provided Washington policymakers with strategic warning of the dangers 
and intentions of China in the region. The admiral’s blunt warnings about China contrast with a more measured 
assessment of the risk of a conflict with China from Army Gen. Mark A. Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff.-50-
“I think China has a ways to go to develop the actual, no-kidding capability to conduct military operations to seize 
through military means the entire island of Taiwan if they wanted to do that,” Gen. Milley told a congressional 
hearing last month.
Several days later Gen. Milley voiced concerns about the capabilities of the U.S. military in waging an extended 
conflict with China. A war with China “would be an enormous expensive undertaking in terms of all measures 
and I would be concerned about the ability to sustain a long-term conflict,” he said.
Adm. Studeman said he feels confident U.S. forces would have adequate warning of a Chinese military attack on 
Taiwan.
“The issue is even if you had, let’s say 90 days of strategic warning for Taiwan, whether or not we have … have 
built up the capacities and the capabilities that we need to be able to handle the type of scenario which may be 
unfolding,” he said.
Adversaries like China have a different concept of war than the United States. For them, “every day is a day of 
war in terms of the continuous struggle for advantage and disadvantage for influence,” he said.
Despite reluctance to compare the threat from China to the Cold War with Moscow, Adm. Studeman said the 
scale and breadth of the danger is “absolutely awesome and it has every dimension we saw in the 20th century.”
China, he argued, is not simply seeking to become a leading world power but plans to surpass the United States 
and become the world’s most powerful state.
“That’s what Xi Jinping’s course looks like,” he said, referring to the Chinese president. “And he’s been very 
aggressive across the way. He’s very Machiavellian. It’s not unfair to say that the Chinese rise has come through 
lying, cheating and stealing.”
China is expected to employ cyber warfare and anti-satellite attacks in any future conflict. Beijing is also investing 
heavily in space in anti-satellite weapons, including electronic jammers, and missiles capable of blasting orbiting 
satellites and conducting attacks with other satellites.
“They are on the march,” Adm. Studeman said. “It’s clear as day what they’re putting into the investments.”
U.S. forces also are investing heavily in space defenses “and it will be a game of measures, and countermeasures, 
and counter-countermeasures” in a future space conflict.
China’s government has used its technological capabilities around the world to gather masses of data that can be 
used for what the admiral called “effective control” over populations, such as in Xinjiang and Hong Kong.-51-
“This is a foreshadowing of what Chinese effective control will look like in other places,” he said.
China is seeking to simultaneously gain control over contested areas such as the border with India, areas around 
Bhutan in South Asia, the Mekong region of Vietnam, the South China Sea, the East China Sea and the Taiwan 
Strait, he said. Internally, the ruling Chinese Communist Party, has strong institutions of power and the regime 
does not appear to be threatened by dissension that could produce serious opposition, the admiral added.
RETURN TO TOP
21. Five years after South China Sea ruling, China’s presence around Philippines only growing
Reuters, July 8 (2341) | Not Attributed
CATO, Philippines -- Filipino fisherman Randy Megu has often braved the storms that spring up in the South 
China Sea, but these days he has a greater fear: seeing a Chinese maritime enforcement vessel on the horizon.
Five years after a landmark international arbitration court ruling repudiated China’s claims to the waters where 
Megu fishes, the 48-year-old complains that his encounters with Chinese boats are more frequent than ever.
“I was so scared,” said Megu, describing how a Chinese vessel had tracked his wooden outrigger boat for three 
hours some 140 nautical miles (260 km) from the coast in May.
He said other fishermen had reported being rammed or blasted with water cannons while working in what they 
considered their historic fishing grounds - which they had hoped to secure after the ruling in The Hague in 2016.
China rejected the ruling and has stood by its claim to most of the waters within a so-called Nine Dash Line, 
which is also contested by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam.
China’s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
In just one incident in March, the Philippines complained of incursions by what it said were more than 200 
Chinese militia vessels into the exclusive economic zone (EEZ), which extends 200 nautical miles from its coast.
Chinese diplomats said the boats were sheltering from rough seas and no militia were aboard.
“The data here is very clear,” said Greg Poling of Washington’s Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
“Chinese Coast Guard ships and the militia are in the Philippines’ EEZ more than they were five years ago.”
A July 2020 opinion poll showed that 70% of Filipinos want the government to assert its claim in the South China 
Sea.-52-
“We firmly reject attempts to undermine it; nay, even erase it from law, history and our collective memories,”
Foreign Minister Teodoro Locsin said in a statement last month.
The country has made 128 diplomatic protests over China’s activities in contested waters since 2016, and coast 
guard and bureau of fisheries vessels have conducted “sovereign” patrols in the Philippines’ EEZ.
But the Philippines has done little else to press its claim under firebrand President Rodrigo Duterte, who has made 
the relationship with China a plan of his foreign policy and said it is “inutile” to try to challenge its vastly bigger 
neighbour.
After some of his cabinet stepped up rhetoric over the waters early this year, Duterte barred them from speaking 
out.
“China is more in control. The only thing the Duterte government can point to is they haven’t had a major 
incident,” Poling said. “If you just keep surrendering to the bully, of course there won’t be a fight.”
The Philippine coast guard and ministry of defence did not respond to requests for comment.
China’s presence has also grown elsewhere in the South China Sea. It has continued to strengthen artificial islands 
equipped with secured ports, airstrips and surface-to-air-missiles.
Confrontations with Vietnam have set back energy projects. Malaysia has complained about the actions of 
Chinese vessels. Their presence have also drawn concern in Indonesia - even though it is not technically a claimant 
state.
Occasional freedom of navigation operations by the U.S. Navy have challenged China’s claims but show no sign 
of discouraging Beijing from deploying vessels around the Philippines or elsewhere.
Before his election in 2016, Duterte had said he would stand up for his country’s claims in the South China Sea.
He is due to step down at the end of his single six-year term next year, but talk that he could be vice president or 
be succeeded by his daughter have raised doubts that policies will change.
The fishermen of Pangasinan see little hope of a challenge to the Chinese vessels that now dictate their 
movements.
“Now, it is as if we are the ones stealing from our own backyard,” said 51-year old fisherman Christopher de 
Vera.
RETURN TO TOP-53-
EUROPE
22. Fighter jets scramble, interrupt leaders in Lithuania
Associated Press, July 8 (0957) | Jari Tanner and Lorne Cook
HELSINKI -- A news conference at a NATO air base in Lithuania featuring Lithuania’s president and Spain’s 
prime minister got abruptly cut off Thursday when the pair of Spanish fighter jets serving as the leaders’ backdrop 
were scrambled to monitor errant military aircraft in the skies above the Baltics.
The Spanish government said an unidentified plane prompted the alert and briefly interrupted remarks by 
Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda and Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez. Spanish media reported that 
the plane was Russian, but the government’s statement didn’t specify.
A NATO official who spoke on customary condition of anonymity told The Associated Press later Thursday that 
Spain’s jets took off “to identify two aircraft flying into the Baltic Sea area.” The planes were two Russian Su-24 
combat jets heading northeast, the official said.
“Those two Russian jets did not file a flight plan, did not have their flight transponder on, or talk to traffic 
controllers,” the official said.
The Russian Defense Ministry said the two Su-24 bombers flew a regular training mission over neutral waters of 
the Baltic on Thursday. “The flight was performed in strict accordance with international rules of using airspace 
and without violation of any country’s borders,” the ministry said in a statement.
Amid Russia-West tensions, both Russia and NATO have regularly scrambled fighter jets to identify and shadow 
the other party’s aircraft.
Nauseda and Sánchez were speaking with two Spanish air force Eurofighter Typhoons behind them at the base in 
the town of Siauliai when security officials suddenly interrupted the leaders as crews scrambled to get on the 
fighter jets, live footage from the press conference showed.
“Our press conference was interrupted by a real call....You see, everything works great. I can confirm that the 
fighter jets took off in less than 15 minutes” of receiving the alarm, Lithuanian public broadcaster LRT quoted 
Nauseda as saying after the incident. “Thanks to Pedro (Sánchez), we have really seen how our air policing 
mission works.”
Sánchez told reporters when the news conference resumed: “We have seen a real case of what usually happens 
that precisely justifies the presence of Spanish troops with the seven Eurofighters in Lithuania.”-54-
The three Baltic nations — Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania — joined NATO in 2004 and have no fighter jets of 
their own. NATO has the responsibility of policing their airspace on a rotational four-month basis from the base 
in Siualiai and in Amari, Estonia.
Aircraft that member nations assign to NATO missions are on standby around the clock every day of the year. 
They were scrambled about 400 times in Europe last year, mostly in response to movements by Russian 
warplanes.
“This demonstrates once again the importance of NATO’s air policing mission, which has been running for 60 
years to keep our skies safe. It also shows the skills of our pilots and the close coordination among NATO allies,”
NATO spokesperson Oana Lungescu said.
Lithuanian Defense Minister Arvydas Anusauskas confirmed that an alarm signal was triggered at the base in his 
country and posted a video on Facebook of one of the departing Spanish fighters.
Sánchez is on the final day of a three-day trip to the Baltic region and earlier met with officials in Estonia and 
Latvia.
--Cook reported from Brussels. Aritz Parra in Madrid and Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow contributed to this 
report
RETURN TO TOP
AFRICA
23. Macron to reassure African leaders on commitment to fighting terror
Agence France-Presse, July 9 (0047) | Didier Lauras
President Emmanuel Macron will seek to reassure Sahel leaders of his commitment to Africa’s anti-terror fight 
on Friday, at their first talks since he announced a reduction of French troops in West Africa.
The decision last month to scale back French forces -- and hopefully convince EU allies to step up their presence 
-- opens an uncertain phase in the fight against jihadist insurgents that control wide swathes of West Africa.
Fresh political turmoil in Mali and Chad, where military juntas are now in charge, raises further questions about 
whether local governments can effectively tackle the Islamist threat.
France has not given details on how many of the 5,100 soldiers in its Barkhane counter-terrorism force will remain 
in the region.
Defence Minister Florence Parly said the government would announce the changes “fairly soon”.-55-
She insisted that “this transformation does not mean a departure from the Sahel, nor that we are going to let up 
our counter-terrorism operations.”
A source familiar with the plans told AFP that troop levels will fall to around 3,500 over the next year, and to 
2,500 by the end of 2023.
Commandos in the “Sabre” task force will remain to hunt down the leaders of jihadist groups linked to Al-Qaeda 
or the Islamic State, the source said on condition of anonymity.
Because of the Covid-19 pandemic the talks with the presidents of Mali, Chad, Burkina Faso and Mauritania will 
be held by video, with only Niger’s President Mohamed Bazoum travelling to Paris.
He and Macron are set to hold a news conference afterwards.
Announcing the Barkhane drawdown eight years after French soldiers were first deployed against a jihadist 
advance in Mali, Macron warned that military force “cannot be a substitute for political stability”.
He has pressed Sahel leaders to win public support by stamping out corruption in their impoverished states, and 
by restoring government control and services in areas where Islamist fighters have closed schools and driven tens 
of thousands from their homes.
The results have been discouraging, with France going so far as to suspend military cooperation with Mali last 
month after officers staged a second coup in nine months.
Meanwhile the head of Chad’s military junta, Mahamat Idriss Deby Itno, travelled to Paris this week for talks 
with Macron, who promised more French aid after Deby’s father was killed in April while on the frontline of a 
battle against rebels.
“The political events in Mali and Chad regularly pose the question about our commitment to the Sahel,” General 
Francois Lecointre, France’s armed forces chief of staff, told the Senate last month.
“We haven’t resolved” security problems “that stem as much from political issues as from military issues”, said 
the outspoken officer, who is retiring this month.
France has also struggled to train local troops grouped in a G5 Sahel anti-jihadist alliance that remains outmatched 
in many areas by jihadist fighters who have staged increasingly bold attacks in recent months.
Paris now plans to fold its presence into the so-called Takuba international task force, originally a training 
operation for Mali. The force currently comprises around 600 soldiers, half of them French.-56-
So far the Czech Republic, Estonia, Italy and Sweden have answered Macron’s calls for contributions to help 
make Takuba function more as a counter-terrorism mission.
Even if bigger allies like Germany sent hundreds of soldiers, winning the fight against insurgents spread across a 
semi-desert area the size of Western Europe won’t be easy.
“For many European governments, the current extent of their military involvement in the Sahel already pushes 
up against political red lines at home,” said Andrew Lebovich, a researcher at the European Council on Foreign 
Relations.
“Development projects need security combined with improved governance and government presence in order to 
be effective,” Lebovich wrote in an analysis this month.
“An ill-coordinated drawdown and ad hoc coalition building risks the worst of all worlds, creating political and 
security costs for Europe... and removing ways to work with, or pressure, Sahelian states to pursue much-needed 
changes,” he said.
RETURN TO TOP
24. Marines deploy to southern African nation amid pro-democracy protests
Marine Corps Times Online, July 8 (1220) | Philip Athey
A team of 13 Marines with the Marine security guard Security Augmentation Unit have been sent to the U.S. 
embassy in the small southern African nation of Eswatini to beef up security as pro-democracy protests in the 
nation turn violent.
Locals in the nation, known as Swaziland until 2018, started protesting in late June after King Mswati III banned 
petitions calling for democratic reform, Human Rights Watch reported.
As the protests started to grow government security forces cracked down on the pro-democracy demonstrators.
“The government of Eswatini has launched a full-frontal assault on human rights in response to ongoing prodemocracy protests,” Deprose Muchena, Amnesty International’s Director for East and Southern Africa, said on 
July 2. “Dozens of people have been killed for daring to demand that their government respects human rights, 
many of them human rights defenders and activists.”
A detachment of 100 Marines are reinforcing the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, after Iraq protesters supportive 
of an Iran-backed Shiite militia attempted to storm the compound.-57-
The Marines were sent to the U.S. embassy as tensions were rising on June 30, according to a Marine Corps press 
release.
The Marine Security Guard Security Augmentation Unit was created after the 2012 attack on the U.S. consulate 
building in Benghazi, Libya, that resulted in the death of four Americans including the U.S. Ambassador to Libya 
J. Christopher Stevens.
The security augmentation unit rapidly deploys Marines to embassies and consulates when they come under 
threat.
This is the 106th mission for the security augmentation team since it was established, according to the Marine 
Corps.
Previous missions include rapid deployment to Bangkok in 2013 to 2014 and an “overland insertion” into Paris 
during a wave of protests in the French city.
RETURN TO TOP
AMERICAS
25. Two U.S. citizens among Haiti suspects
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A1 | Widlore Merancourt, Anthony Faiola and Shawn Boburg
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -- Haitian authorities on Thursday escalated their hunt for what one official called the 
“intellectual authors” behind the assassination of President Jovenel Moïse, saying they had detained several 
suspects - including two U.S. citizens - as they tried to keep the capital from descending into vigilante justice.
Firefights between alleged suspects and police continued Thursday not far from the Pelerin 5 neighborhood in the 
hills above Port-au-Prince where Moïse was killed and his wife, Martine, was seriously wounded early 
Wednesday. The assassination of the 53-year-old president has deepened the spiraling political crisis in this 
impoverished Caribbean nation.
Two U.S. citizens of Haitian descent, identified as James Solages, 35, and Joseph Vincent, 55, are among those 
arrested, according to Mathias Pierre, Haiti’s minister of elections and interparty relations. At least three suspects 
had been killed, authorities said, while 17 had been detained and eight others remained on the run. Officials had 
earlier said that four of the suspects had been killed. Other than the Haitian Americans, officials said all other 
suspects were believed to be Colombian nationals.
As of Thursday evening, officials had not provided evidence of the detainees’ alleged involvement in the 
assassination, and questions remained about who launched the attack and why. Authorities showed images on -58-
national television of the detained men, bound, brooding and disheveled on the floor of Haiti’s national police 
headquarters in the capital. Displayed on a nearby table was a cache of weapons authorities said they had seized, 
including assault rifles and machetes, as well as a tableau of the men’s passports.
The mysterious plot against Moïse was reaching beyond Haiti’s borders. Colombian authorities confirmed late 
Thursday that at least some of the suspects were former members of the Colombian army, saying they had 
launched an investigation into their alleged involvement.
Colombian Defense Minister Diego Molano said that Interpol had formally requested information on the suspects.
“Initially, the information indicates that they are Colombian citizens, retired members of the national army,” he 
said.
The head of Colombia’s national police, Gen. Jorge Luis Vargas, said that six initial names had been provided to 
the Colombians, two of whom had died. He said information about their finances, flight details and other data 
would be sent to Port-au-Prince to aid the investigation.
In a statement, the Embassy of Taiwan in Port-au-Prince said that Haitian police had entered its embassy grounds 
and seized 11 suspects holed up there.
“The Embassy welcomes the rapid response of the Haitian authorities,” the statement said.
Bed-ford Claude, a Haitian prosecutor, told The Washington Post he had requested the “interrogation” of Dimitri 
Herard and Laguel Civil, senior figures in the president’s security detail.
Anger in the capital, meanwhile, was growing. Video shared by Pierre showed two bound suspects - one of them 
shirtless and both appearing in distress - being dragged from a home by a jeering crowd. Mobs burned three of 
the five vehicles seized by police after the attack. Pierre said an angry group of citizens had surrounded a police 
station where suspects were being held.
“The special units are trying to protect the police station, because the population is very mad and is trying to get 
to them, to burn them,” he said. “We’re trying to avoid that.”
Pierre released the names and ages of seven suspects Thursday evening. They include Solages, Vincent and four 
Colombian nationals.
On Thursday, Haitian Police Chief Leon Charles called for “calm.”
“It is the job of the police to take people to the justice system so the family of the president and the country finds 
justice,” Charles said.-59-
Solages is chief executive of EJS Maintenance & Repair, formed in 2019, according to Florida incorporation 
records. He launched a nonprofit group in March 2019 focused on humanitarian efforts in Haiti, state records 
show.
That nonprofit, FWA SA A Jacmel Avan, based at a home in Tamarac, Fla., reported revenue of $11,388 in 2019. 
A biography on its website describes Solages as a “building engineer specialized in the field of infrastructure 
development” and a “certified diplomatic agent.”
It says he was the chief commander of bodyguards for the Canadian Embassy in Haiti. The embassy did not 
immediately respond to a request for comment Thursday.
A Facebook profile, since removed, described Solages as a self-employed aspiring actor who studied at Florida 
Career College. It listed his current city as Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and his hometown as Jacmel, Haiti.
Schubert Dorisme, 63, Solages’s uncle, said in an interview that his family was stunned by their nephew’s alleged 
involvement in the slaying of the Haitian president and only learned of his arrest by seeing a news story on 
Facebook.
“First of all, I’m sorry for what happened about my president. I am deeply sorry. It feels like my son killed my 
brother,” Dorisme said outside his home in Tamarac, where relatives of Solages gathered.
“I love my president, and I love James Solages,” he said. “I don’t know how this thing happened. He doesn’t have 
no military training,” he added.
Dorisme said he was unsure of how long his nephew had been visiting Haiti leading up to the assassination, but 
added that he traveled periodically to assist in humanitarian and charity efforts in his hometown of Jacmel, where 
he once unsuccessfully ran for mayor.
Dorisme said family members had never known Solages to have radical political beliefs, though he offered a 
caveat.
“I think, for me, I think he went down there just for that,” he said referring to the deadly attack.
State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters Thursday he could not confirm that a captured suspect was 
American.
“I’m not in a position to confirm that, principally because the Haitian authorities are, of course, leading this 
investigation,” he said. “It’s still early days. We’re aware of the reports of the arrests that have taken place.”-60-
As authorities hunted for those involved, new details emerged of Moïse’s killing. Authorities say the assault was 
conducted by a team of “commandos.”
Haitian Judge Carl Henry Destin, who assessed the scene Wednesday morning, told The Post that Moïse was 
found dead in his bedroom, on his back in a white, bloodstained shirt and blue pants.
“His body was riddled with bullets,” Destin said. The bedroom had been ransacked.
He said the president’s ‘s daughter, Jomarlie Jovenel Moïse, reported seeing her mother with bullet wounds on 
her right arm. Jomarlie was with her younger brother during the attack. Destin said a maid and another staff 
member at the home were tied up by the attackers.
Martine Moïse was flown to Florida on Wednesday for care, in critical but stable condition.
After the attack, Haiti closed the Port-au-Prince airport to commercial traffic, and the neighboring Dominican 
Republic closed the land border. Acting prime minister Claude Joseph said Thursday that authorities anticipated 
the imminent reopening of airports.
The motive for the killing remained unclear. The country has endured rising violence during a months-long 
political stalemate. Moïse, a businessman who took office in 2017, ruled by decree after parliamentary terms 
expired in January 2020 and no new elections were held. Opponents and protesters demanded that he step down. 
Armed gangs with unclear allegiances have seized control of growing portions of the country.
“He had obviously many enemies,” said Robert Fatton, a professor of government and foreign affairs at the 
University of Virginia who has written extensively on Haiti. “There might have been some degree of complicity 
on the part of those protecting the president.”
Compounding the confusion is the question of who’s in charge now. Two men claim to be prime minister. Moïse 
was due to install Ariel Henry, a neurologist, as prime minister on Wednesday to replace Joseph - the latest 
appointment in a revolving door of prime ministers.
It was Joseph who announced Moïse’s killing Wednesday morning; he said he was now the head of Haiti’s 
government.
But in an interview with the Haitian news outlet Le Nouvelliste, Henry appeared to contradict Joseph, saying the 
job was now his.
But he also seemed to recognize the sensitivity of the moment, with Haitians fearing for the rule of law and the 
nation threatening to tilt toward chaos.-61-
“I don’t want to put oil on the fire,” Henry told the outlet. “We must avoid igniting the country.”
The Supreme Court’s chief justice, who might be expected to help provide stability in a crisis, died recently of 
covid-19.
The leadership vacuum is a potential powder keg in a nation grappling with deepening economic, political and 
social woes, with gang violence spiking in the capital, Port-au-Prince, inflation spiraling and food and fuel 
becoming scarcer in a country where 60 percent of the population makes less than $2 a day.
Moïse ran a banana export company before entering politics. He was handpicked by President Michel Martelly, 
who resigned in 2016, and came to power a year later, the start of a tenure that was controversial from the 
beginning. Haitian authorities accused him of money laundering in 2017 through an account he held with his 
wife. He denied the charges.
Human rights leaders have accused Moïse of maintaining links to violent street gangs, bands of which have been 
seen by witnesses riding in the armored vehicles used by the national police and special security forces. He denied 
any ties.
Moïse’s many enemies were both domestic and international. The political opposition, which argued that his term 
expired in February, was pressuring him to step down.
Powerful business interests opposed his move to nationalize parts of the energy sector. And only days before his 
assassination, he issued a decree that effectively cleared a large number of political actors to run for higher office, 
meaning Moïse potentially stood in the way of ambitious politicians eying the September elections.
He also ran afoul of Venezuelan President Nicolàs Maduro after agreeing, at Washington’s urging, to support 
U.S.-backed opposition leader Juan Guaidó as Venezuela’s rightful head of state.
--Faiola reported from Miami. Boburg reported from Washington. Julie Tate, Alex Horton and Dalton Bennett 
in Washington, Rachel Pannett in Sydney, Michael Majchrowicz in Tamarac, Fla., Lori Rozsa in West Palm 
Beach, Fla., and Andre Paultre in Port-au-Prince contributed to this report
RETURN TO TOP-62-
AIR FORCE
26. Air Force ‘Not There Yet’ On Key Hurdle For Digital Revolution
Darlene Costello, acting Air Force acquisition head, has issued a guidance document, called the Digital 
Building Code, for implementing the service’s ambitious digital revolution
BreakingDefense.com, July 8 (1505) | Theresa Hitchens
WASHINGTON -- As the Air Force continues to press ahead with its wide-ranging initiative to “digitize” its 
acquisition processes — from weapon system design to engineering to production to testing — using 
computerized models, called digital twins, to speed up testing remains a challenge, according to Darlene Costello, 
the service’s acting acquisition head.
Making digital testing a reality is key to the service’s hopes for its e-Program and e-Series effort. Without the 
ability to test based on simulations, much of the time savings from those efforts will dissipate. And as of now, the 
service isn’t where it needs to be.
Simply put, “We’re not there yet,” Costello told the Potomac Officers Club today.
She explained that there are both technical and “cultural” hurdles to be overcome. “We need to work closely with 
our test community in order to create the models that they can consider valid,” she said.
“There will be some testing to validate models, and there they will need to become comfortable with what’s in 
the digital models for the programs, and where can they [provide] benefit to not having to do physical testing,”
she said. “So, we’re at the early stages of that. I know there’s a willingness and an eagerness to leverage digital 
acquisition in the test arena, but some of it is going to be cultural because, you know, physical testing is key for 
all of our test programs right now.”
The idea, she elaborated, is that to “burn down risk virtually” where that can be safely done, “and then go to 
testing to validate or do the final exam.”
Costello added that the Air Force testers are “currently invested in spending time to figure that out, and hopefully 
we will be finding ways forward in the next year or two.”
Costello in May signed a memo that details the components of what might be deemed the Air Force’s basic 
instruction manual for implementing digital engineering, agile software development and open systems 
architecture — the three tools that former service acquisition czar Will Roper dubbed as the digital “holy trinity”
of innovation.-63-
The memo also puts forth a “e-Program scorecard” for demonstrating that a new program is making full use of 
those tools, and hence meets the criteria to be designated as an e-Program.
“I’ve actually issued a memo, called our ‘Digital Building Code,’ to our acquisition workforce with the guidance 
that we believe are the best practices right now,” she said today. “It’s a living document. We will update as we 
learn, because we’re going to keep learning. This is a journey.”
The memo is a follow-on to Roper’s “Bending the Spoon” guidebook for digital engineering and e-Series 
initiatives, released on Jan. 19 as one of his last acts in office. That guidebook — which like its predecessor 
outlining digital acquisition strategy, called “There Is No Spoon,” uses the cyber-punk movie series “The Matrix”
as a foundational metaphor — lays out 14 criteria for creating an Air Force e-Series acquisition program. Roper 
listed four service programs so designated:
• Next Generation Air Dominance (NGAD) program to develop a sixth-generation fighter, drones for 
teaming with piloted aircraft and potentially a lower-end air-to-air fighter to replace the F-16;
• B-52 Commercial Engine Replacement Program (CERP);
• A-10 Re-wing Program; and,
• Ground Based Strategic Deterrent (GBSD) to replace the aging Minuteman III nuclear missile arsenal.
Costello acknowledged that there has been some confusion between what the service taps as an e-Program vice 
an e-Series program. And this is in part because those definitional boundaries have shifted since Roper’s “Bending 
the Spoon” publication.
For example, Costello gave GBSD as an example of an e-Program, albeit one that was initiated as such and is 
fully digitized, from beginning to end. She noted, for example, that the program had run through some 6 billion 
iterations before coming up with a design — a feat made possible by using digital modeling. But Roper’s memo 
called it an e-Series effort.
Costello also mentioned the T-7A Red Hawk trainer as an e-Program. But when former Air Force Secretary 
Barbara Barrett in September announced it as the first digitally designed aircraft, she called it the first e-Series 
aircraft, dubbed the “e-T7-A.”
Further complicating the issue is the fact that some acquisition efforts are only partly e-Programs, using the digital 
trinity for subsystems or components of a conventional program, Costello added. The key example here is the B52, which is undergoing a number of upgrades (including to its radar), but only the CERP is using the digital 
trinity approach. Costello noted that the three competitors are creating virtual prototypes of their engines, which 
the Air Force will use to down-select one to build a “physical prototype.” And again, while Costello called the 
CERP an e-Program, Roper dubbed it an e-Series. She also listed the A-10 Re-wing and the F-15EX as examples 
of these partial e-Programs.-64-
According to Costello’s May memo, the key differentiation between the two seems to be that e-Programs use the 
digital trinity, while e-Series programs actually use digital design to plan a replacement schedule. The memo 
states:
e-Programs: Acquisition programs employing the “digital trinity” (i.e., digital engineering, agile software, and
open systems architecture) of Digital Acquisition to replace, automate, or truncate real-world activities based on 
authoritative virtualization or automation in the digital world. The attached tabs provide detailed information for 
how the SAE will assess and identify activities as ePrograms. The SAE may delegate e-Program designations as 
required.
e-Series Programs: An e-Program with a strategic pre-planned replacement schedule (i.e., Series) based on a 
cadence driven by economic Total Cost of Ownership and life span to drive speed and agility to stay ahead of the 
threat by delivering at the pace of technology maturation.
So, the only currently ongoing example of an e-Series program is NGAD — at least, it is the only one Costello 
mentioned.
“An e-Series is a variant on an e-Program. It’s a program that has a planned lifecycle, if you will, instead of just 
building it and being done. We’re planning for a shorter cycle, because in that particular case — and these would 
have to be decided on a case basis — the business case shows that we’ll need new capability in 12-15 years, 
whatever it is. So, we’re going to design for a shorter life cycle, and plan for a new design after that,” she said.
“And that could be a component level, that could be at the platform level,” she added. “Right now, our NGAD is 
an example of an e-Series program.”
RETURN TO TOP
ARMY
27. Long Road Ahead for Energy Resilience of Army Installations
The service is working to make sure its bases can operate even if local utilities are down
DefenseOne.com, July 8 (1820) | Caitlin M. Kenney
Army installations are reliant on commercial companies to provide them with electricity and water, but that utility 
infrastructure is vulnerable to natural disasters and threats like the recent Colonial pipeline cyberattack. Schofield 
Barracks in Hawaii recently tested its ability to overcome such a threat by using a generation station to provide 
energy to local bases; however, most Army installations do not have this capability.
The Army and the local power company Hawaiian Electric tested the Schofield Generating Station on May 22 by 
taking Schofield Barracks, Wheeler Army Airfield, and Field Station Kunia off the local power grid and isolating -65-
them to the station. It took about two hours to get power back to the bases, Maj. Gen. James Jarrard, the 
commander of the 25th Infantry Division and U.S. Army Hawaii, said during a call with reporters Wednesday.
“In the event of an emergency where power is lost, Schofield Barracks and U.S. Army Hawaii can be back up 
and running in just a matter of hours. This enables us to support the state of Hawaii if requested to provide defense 
support to civil authorities,” he said.
The station test was done over a 36-hour period before the installations were put back on the local grid, according 
to a Hawaiian Electric statement.
The generation station operates on 100 percent biodiesel that is distilled in Hawaii, and it is the only power station 
located away from the coastal area, Jarrard said. While the station is located on the Army installation, it is operated 
by the local utility company.
There are few other installations that have large microgrid capability like Schofield Barracks, said Jack Surash, 
the senior official performing the duties of the assistant secretary of the Army for installations, energy, and 
environment. Most have backup generators for each building that can be used during an outage, he said.
Fort Drum in New York is one other base that does have this capability, with a biomass generation facility that 
can provide the electricity the installation needs. If there is an outage, Fort Drum can operate for more than a 
month off of the local grid with the biomass stored on the site, according to the Army’s office of energy initiatives.
The Army’s installation strategy released in December calls for “Army energy and water systems will be resilient, 
cyber-secure, and efficient.” Having assured power on Army installations is one part of the strategy, Surash said, 
and that will be a focus for the service over the next 15 years.
While the Army is trying to make its installations more resilient against natural disasters, physical threats, and 
cyberattacks, each one faces its own unique situation the Army officials said. So far, only a handful of installations 
under the Army’s Installation Management Command can meet a goal established a few years ago to operate off 
the electric grid for at least two weeks, Gregory Kuhr, the director of facilities and logistics with the command 
said during the call.
All Army installations are developing plans that aim to meet the “default” 14-day requirement, Kuhr said. 
However, Surash added that the actual number of days is now determined by local garrison commanders.
When installations achieve their resiliency goal and how they do it will be based on their state and local utility 
capabilities as well as their mission set, with the focus going to bases that project forces, such as Hawaii and Fort 
Bragg in North Carolina, Surash said.-66-
“I would love to have all 133 Army installations done in a 12-month period, but it’s going to take a number of 
years to actually get at this. But we’re going to go at it in a priority fashion,” he said.
In the meantime, the Army is learning how to best address and overcome power outages at its installations. About 
half a dozen installations have gone through a “black start” exercise that purposely cuts them off from the grid 
for eight to 12 hours to learn about the electrical needs of facilities and how to get power back up, Surash said.
RETURN TO TOP
NAVY
28. Navy Outlines Planning, Execution Failures in Cruiser Modernization Program
U.S. Naval Institute News, July 8 (1839) | Mallory Shelbourne
The Navy’s push to retire seven guided-missile cruisers stems from management and planning in its original 
modernization program that caused exorbitant cost growth, according to service officials.
Navy officials have repeatedly cited cost as a reason for the proposed decommissionings, arguing that the service 
could put the money toward other modernization priorities instead of sustaining the aging platforms.
“The cruisers right now and the modernization are running 175 to 200 percent above estimated costs, hundreds 
of days delay. These ships were intended to have a 30-year service life, we’re out to 35,” Chief of Naval 
Operations Adm. Mike Gilday told the House Armed Services Committee last month.
Reasons for the cost increases range from contractor performance to planning problems plaguing the 
modernization effort, a spokesperson for Naval Sea Systems Command told USNI News this week.
“Since the CG Mod program’s inception in 2015, there have been issues with planning and execution. These 
issues have included: contract award values significantly exceeding Independent Government Estimates; late 
delivery of Government Furnished Material for early ships in the program; and limited learning between 
successive availabilities due to awards being made across multiple contracts and time periods,” NAVSEA 
spokesperson Jamie Koehler told USNI News. “During execution, cost growth can be attributed to program 
complexity: ships had sat idle for five to six years prior to entering the repair yard, contributing to an 
underestimation of pre-existing ship conditions, underestimation of the challenges in system reactivation after 
prolonged inactivity, and poor industry performance.”
The Navy is seeking to retire seven cruisers – USS San Jacinto (CG-56), USS Lake Champlain (CG-57), USS 
Monterey (CG-61), USS Port Royal (CG-73), USS Vella Gulf (CG-72), USS Hué City (CG-66) and USS Anzio 
(CG-68) – in its Fiscal Year 2022 budget request. Keeping those seven cruisers in the fleet would cost the service -67-
about $5 billion throughout the Pentagon’s five-year budget outlook, deputy chief of naval operations for 
warfighting requirements and capabilities (OPNAV N9) Vice Adm. Jim Kilby told Congress last month.
“If we were to retain those ships for two years – all seven ships – that’s roughly $2.78 billion. The cost to 
modernize Hue City and Anzio alone is $1.5 billion approximately,” he said. “So that’s the rough breakdown of 
figures for those ships.”
In addition to the cost of maintaining the cruisers, the Navy issued contracts for the cruiser modernization 
initiative that were more than the government’s projections, according to Koehler.
“The budgets originally established were created from Independent Government Estimates (IGEs) that are based 
off historical cost, RMC, Third Party Planner, and Planning Yard inputs,” Koehler said. “The fixed-price contracts 
that were subsequently awarded following negotiations significantly exceeded the IGE and were awarded postbudget submission and therefore are not reflected in budget books. The awarded contract values for Cruiser 
Modernization availabilities were announced via press release at time of award.”
Seeking to justify the Navy’s proposal to decommission the warships, Kilby cited fuel tank leaks that have 
repeatedly plagued the aging cruisers.
“She missed roughly one-third of the deployment because of maintenance things, not because her radar was down, 
not because her combat system wasn’t capable, not because she didn’t have a full magazine – but she had tank 
top cracking that required her to get that fixed to be safely underway,” Kilby told HASC last month, referring to 
a 2017 deployment for Lake Champlain.
“Vella Gulf missed a month of her previous deployment and has missed two and a half months of her current 
deployment. So all that, in my mind, has to go into the mix when we factor the availability and reliability of those 
ships. Those missile tubes will only count if they’re underway alongside the carrier,” he added, referring to Vella 
Gulf, which had to return to port for the first two months of its recent deployment due to maintenance issues that 
included fuel tank leaks.
While the Navy wants to retire the seven ships in FY 2022, some lawmakers have criticized the move and are 
skeptical of the service’s overall divest-to-invest approach to the budget.
Rep. Elaine Luria (D-Va.), a former nuclear-qualified surface warfare officer who once served as the executive 
officer of Anzio, has openly opposed decommissioning the cruisers.
“I’ll continue to say what I have: it’s a ship that we have, and the cost of modernizing and upgrading it for 
extending its service life 10 or so years is significantly lower than building a new ship,” Luria told USNI News 
in an interview earlier this year, adding that “the amount of time it takes to build a new ship, we just can’t 
decommission 10 cruisers faster than we can build replacements.”-68-
“We have a real and proximate threat from China in the Western Pacific, South China Sea, East China Sea. We 
need to be present, and we need the capabilities that a cruiser brings, including its VLS cells. So the idea that the 
Navy’s longer-range plan in this Battle Force 2045 is to replace cruisers – who have two full [Vertical Launching 
System] launchers, over 120 cells – with a fleet of these Large Unmanned Surface Vessels with 16 VLS cells, a 
technology that’s not mature,” is not a move she would back.
RETURN TO TOP
INSTALLATIONS
29. ‘Significant’ 120 MPH Tornado Carves Through Georgia Submarine Base
Military.com, July 8 (0700) | Konstantin Toropin
A tornado with winds that reached about 120 miles per hour struck Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay, Georgia, 
on Wednesday afternoon, causing injuries and damage, the National Weather Service said Thursday.
Damage from the tornado, which touched down around 5:45 p.m. local time, was focused on a recreational vehicle 
park on the Navy base, which is the East Coast home for the Ohio-class ballistic missile submarines.
Lt. Stu Phillips, a spokesman for the base, said that a total of 12 RVs were damaged, with one even ending up in 
the water.
Ben Nelson, a meteorologist for the National Weather Service in Jacksonville, Florida, said that the park sustained 
“significant damage.”
“A truck got completely flipped over and tossed for a pretty decent distance,” he said. “There’s debris just kind 
of scattered all over the park with RVs toppled over and flipped over.”
Nelson said that the service received reports of “somewhere between 15 and 20 people” suffering injuries during 
the storm.
Phillips said that 10 people were transported to a local hospital but noted that none of the injuries was lifethreatening. It’s still not clear how many of the injured are service members, dependents or civilians, he added.
Although damage assessments are ongoing, Phillips noted that some buildings on base also suffered damage.
However, he added that there was “no damage to our submarines or any sensitive military equipment.”-69-
“While the situation here is still very dynamic, I want to thank all of our first responders and Camden County first 
responders for their quick actions,” Capt. Chester Parks, the base’s commanding officer, said in a statement. 
“Their quick response most certainly helped.”
Sen. Jon Ossoff, D-Ga., said he spoke with Parks on Wednesday night and pledged “to provide any necessary 
Congressional assistance,” according to a statement.
Ossoff added that affected families can contact his office for help.
The tornado was the result of Tropical Storm Elsa, which made landfall along the north Florida coast Wednesday 
morning.
“We see tornadoes with landfalling tropical systems, but we usually don’t see EF2-type tornadoes,” Nelson 
explained. “This is a pretty significant type of event.”
The Enhanced Fujita or “EF” scale is used to assign a tornado a rating based on estimated wind speeds and related 
damage. It ranges from EF-0 to EF-5.
Kings Bay is the latest base to suffer damage from natural disasters in recent years. Hurricane Florence caused 
catastrophic flooding near Fort Bragg, North Carolina, in September 2018. A month later, Hurricane Michael 
devastated Tyndall Air Force Base and damaged multiple F-22 Raptor fighters when it struck Florida. Wildfires 
and flooding have also damaged bases in recent years.
The latest Defense Department budget request specifically asked for $617 million in new investments to help it 
prepare for and respond to climate change. The money would be used to renovate installations to improve their 
ability to operate during severe weather conditions and be able to recover more quickly after disruptive natural or 
man-made emergencies.
RETURN TO TOP
CYBER
30. Cybergang REvil hits defense contractor
Clients include U.S. Army, NASA
Washington Times, July 9 (0300), Pg. A1 | Ryan Lovelace
The REvil cybergang hit a defense contractor whose customers include the U.S. military in a brash test of 
President Biden’s tough talk seeking to deter cyberattackers bombarding America.-70-
The Russia-linked REvil claimed it stole 23 gigabytes of data belonging to HX5, a Florida-based defense 
contractor working on aerospace and weapon launch technology that lists its clients as including the Army, Navy, 
Air Force, NASA, and General Services Administration. It first published screenshots of some of the allegedly 
stolen material on a website, “The Happy Blog,” on Wednesday.
Targeting a company with U.S. military customers indicates that cybercriminals have not changed their behavior 
because of threatened action by the U.S. government and Mr. Biden, according to cybersecurity professionals.
Brett Callow, a threat analyst at the software company Emsisoft, said that ransomware groups have previously 
targeted defense contractors but REvil was sending a warning as its attack unfolds.
“This is a bit like a kidnapper sending the pinky finger rather than the head,” Mr. Callow said.
Cybersecurity professionals have linked REvil to Russia, although it operates with a business model featuring 
affiliates who deploy attacks from all across the world.
Mr. Biden has been under pressure to respond to the onslaught of ransomware attacks on the U.S. after he drew a 
“red line” on cyberattacks at a June 16 summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Thursday that the Biden administration would continue to send a 
“clear message” to Russia about cybercriminals working within its borders. But she refused to say what the U.S. 
government would do to enforce its ultimatums.
“If the Russian government cannot or will not act against criminal actors residing in Russia, we will act,” Ms. 
Psaki said. “In terms of what we will do, I’m not in a position, of course, to discuss operations.”
A wave of ransomware attacks has hit U.S. businesses and organizations in recent months, including schools, 
medical facilities, and companies such as major U.S. fuel provider Colonial Pipeline.
REvil is the same group that previously disrupted major meat producer JBS and that hit the software company 
Kaseya last weekend in a ransomware attack that the company said affected under 1,500 businesses downstream 
from its customers.
The gang has made its intentions known through posting allegedly stolen information on HX5, which declined to 
comment on the cyberattack.
Money motivates ransomware attackers who hold data and systems hostage until victims pay up to regain access. 
REvil has proven to be an innovative cyberattacker that is interested in both burnishing its reputation and 
pocketing loot, said Reuven Aronashvili, who previously served the Israel Defense Forces and founded the 
cybersecurity company CYE.-71-
He said REvil’s targeting a defense contractor demonstrates its capability and helps cement its status as a top 
ransomware attacker.
“They managed to get credibility on their capabilities and no one is not taking them seriously anymore,” Mr. 
Aronashvili said. “I think that’s part of the process. Now whether that’s connected to a government behind it that 
conceals the data, buys the data, and so on, that is something that, of course, can be another business model.”
Details about what REvil allegedly took from HX5 and whether the attack affects its U.S. government customers 
is unclear. The screenshots posted by REvil display alleged personal information of HX5 employees, including a 
social security number and the personal data included in a life insurance policy for an HX5 executive.
The Army and Navy declined to comment on the cyberattack hitting HX5 and each referred questions to U.S. 
Cyber Command, which did not respond to requests for comment. The Air Force did not respond to requests for 
comment. The General Services Administration said it was not a victim of the REvil attack on Kaseya, but it did 
not answer questions about REvil hitting HX5.
NASA said it did not have information about HX5 or the cyber incident but that it continuously coordinates with 
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency on emerging cyberthreats.
In a March interview with cybersecurity publication The Record, a REvil representative claimed to have access 
to a ballistic missile launch system, a U.S. Navy cruiser, a nuclear power plant, and a weapons factory. The 
unidentified REvil representative professed to have the ability to start a war but no intention of doing so because 
it wouldn’t be profitable.
Mr. Aronashvili cautioned against believing all of REvil’s assertions or discounting them entirely.
“One thing that we can say about them is that they manage to have a lot of credibility in the market and usually 
when they say that they have something, that’s something that usually they can prove,” he said. “However, when 
you talk about this kind of high-profile targets sometimes people are bragging a little bit more than they have, so 
I believe that the truth is somewhere in the middle there.”
--Jeff Mordock contributed to this report
RETURN TO TOP-72-
NOTABLE COMMENTARY
31. To Provide and Maintain a Navy: Understanding the Business of Navy Shipbuilding
Proceedings Magazine, July 2021, Vol. 147/7/1,421 | Sen. Jack Reed (D-RI) and Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK)
As we noted in Proceedings last year, leaders in the Pentagon, on Capitol Hill, and in industry all agree: We must 
accelerate innovative research and development, acquire new capabilities faster, and transform the way the U.S. 
military fights in order to implement our defense strategy.
Before major changes to Navy shipbuilding are proposed, all stakeholders should have a fulsome discussion of 
the business of Navy shipbuilding and implications of big changes. There are a range of options available to 
transition from an existing shipbuilding program to a new program. Each option has trade-offs and requires careful 
consideration that takes into account the realistic schedule needed to mature new designs and technologies, 
develop new tooling and facilities, and adapt the workforce in advance of starting construction on a new 
shipbuilding program.
Navy Shipbuilding Is Different
Large Navy warships typically take longer to build, have higher unit costs, have more suppliers, and are more 
technologically complex when compared with other U.S. weapons systems. In addition, there is a small domestic 
U.S. market for large U.S.-built ships, which largely centers on ships required for domestic trade by the Jones 
Act. So, the Navy is often the only customer for large new ships in the United States.
The procurement of U.S. Navy warships is a marketplace with revenues of roughly $20 billion annually. Four 
major prime contractors build large Navy warships and, with their subcontractors and other government-directed 
contractors, receive the vast majority of this revenue. The economic term for this situation, in which there is a 
single buyer and multiple sellers, is a monopsony.
Typically, a buyer who has a monopsony has a significant leverage in negotiating lower prices for goods, labor 
wages, and costs for materials because of the heightened competition among sellers for the buyer’s business.
With competition limited because of low volumes, specialized construction needs, and high barriers to enter the 
market, Navy shipbuilding often fails to realize the benefits of being a monopsony. Between 1986 and 2016, the 
Navy procured an average of just 8.5 battle force ships per year, and the Navy shipbuilding cost index, which 
measures growth in the costs of labor and materials in the shipbuilding sector, outpaced general economic 
inflation by approximately 1.2 percentage points per year. To maintain the Navy’s shipbuilding buying power, 
annual Navy shipbuilding budget requests need to account for cost increases in the shipbuilding sector.
Contraction and Specialization of Prime Contractors-73-
Since the 1960s, 14 U.S. shipyards that construct ships for the Navy have closed, and three have left the defense 
industry. Only one new shipyard has opened. As a result, just seven shipyards, owned by four prime contractors, 
build large Navy warships today.
By comparison, China has more than 20 shipyards supporting its naval surface ship expansion, with dozens of 
commercial shipyards that dwarf the largest U.S. shipyards in size and throughput. All Chinese naval construction 
shipyards also build commercial ships, which provide additional revenue and support shipyard design, workforce, 
and infrastructure development while reducing overhead costs for naval construction. The Chinese Navy is 
growing at an annual rate of 10 ships and is expected to reach 460 ships in 2030, compared with the U.S. Navy 
which has roughly 300 ships and is struggling to replace decommissioning ships to avoid shrinking.1
Among the seven large U.S. Navy shipyards, ship-class specialization is the norm. Following the award of the 
lead ship in the class, sole-source contractual arrangements exist, literally or in principle, for nearly all classes of 
large U.S. Navy warship being procured: aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious ships, auxiliary ships, and 
small surface combatants. This situation, in which there is only one seller (the shipbuilder of a class of vessels) 
and one buyer (the Navy), is called a bilateral monopoly and the pricing of ships is determined through negotiation 
rather than competition.
The only example of regular competition is the Arleigh Burke–class guided-missile destroyer program, where 
two shipyards compete to build a common design. In this case and few others (e.g., certain lead-ship awards for 
new classes of vessels) in which competition exists, the Navy does reap benefits on labor and material prices 
when it is the only buyer.
Over time, the Navy and its prime contractors have made substantial capital and workforce investments in their 
shipyards and, increasingly, in their suppliers, to meet the Navy’s projected shipbuilding needs. These 
investments typically have the effect of increasing specialized tooling, equipment, and facilities, which in turn 
makes a shipyard better at building existing product lines but may reduce competitiveness for new work that 
differs from existing product lines.
Importance of Predictability and Stability
Maximizing stability in the shipbuilding industrial base, which includes prime contractors, subcontractors, and 
suppliers, as well as improving affordability for the Navy and taxpayers requires stable, predictable procurement 
profiles and intervals between ships (e.g., 12 months between ship construction starts). Consistent intervals enable 
prime contractors to execute ship fabrication more efficiently and suppliers to produce components and 
subsystems more efficiently. The result is often an increased shipbuilder learning curve, which translates into 
fewer labor hours on successive ships of the same class, as well as better material and supplier pricing, all of 
which reduces the time needed to build the ship and cost of the ship to the Navy and taxpayers.-74-
Stability and predictability also enable multiple-ship, multiple-year procurement contracts for shipbuilding 
programs, which have saved taxpayers billions of dollars, accelerated ship deliveries, and strengthened the 
industrial base. We believe the continued use of multiple-ship, multiple-year contracts for mature shipbuilding 
programs should receive thorough consideration.
Once a shipbuilding rate is set (e.g., buying two ships of a class per year), it can be just as challenging for the 
shipbuilding industrial base to speed up (e.g., buying three ships of that class per year) as it is to slow down. 
Often, even with significantly more funding and a commitment to sustain higher funding over time, it takes several 
years for a shipyard to configure for the higher production rate, hire and train the additional shipbuilders, and 
increase supplier deliveries. As a result, prior to a rate change or introducing a new shipbuilding product line at a 
shipyard, Defense and Navy leaders must recognize that doing so will be a long-term commitment with that 
shipyard and its suppliers and require stable and predictable funding for several years to come.
Contraction and Specialization of Suppliers
Over the past 25 years, the number of Navy shipbuilding suppliers for nuclear-powered submarines and aircraft 
carriers dropped by more than two-thirds, and more than 65 percent of remaining suppliers are the single‐ or sole‐
source for their product. This sharp contraction occurred after the Navy dropped from procuring four submarines 
per year in 1977 through 1996 to just one submarine per year in 1998 through 2010 (with the exception of zero 
submarines being procured in 2000).
Expanding the shipbuilding supplier base is not easy and cannot happen quickly. As former Ingalls Shipbuilding 
President Brian Cuccias testified, “Qualifying to be a supplier is a difficult process. Depending on the commodity, 
it may take up to 36 months. That is a big burden on some of these small businesses. This is why creating sufficient 
volume and exercising early contractual authorization and advance procurement funding is necessary to grow the 
supplier base... Many of our suppliers are small businesses and can only make decisions to invest in people, plant 
and tooling when they are awarded a purchase order.”
Importance of Deliberate Future Planning
Over time, the highly specialized, low competition Navy shipbuilding process has become codependent. Given 
there is often only one shipyard capable of building a class of ships for the Navy, the Navy relies on this 
shipbuilder to meet its force-structure requirements.
Similarly, without the Navy placing orders for this class of ships, the shipbuilder and its suppliers will lose a line 
of business and possibly their entire business. In addition to layoffs of the shipbuilder’s skilled workforce, many 
of whom have readily transferrable skill sets to other industries, shipbuilding production breaks often have 
outsized ripple effects through the suppliers, particularly small companies that are ill-equipped to absorb large 
fluctuations in purchase orders.2-75-
As a result, transition planning from one class of ships to the next is critical. With a number of new ship classes 
on the horizon, the Defense strategy under review, and Navy fleet requirements being re-assessed, Department of 
Defense leaders must now consider and plan for how best to transition from existing Navy shipbuilding production 
lines, if necessary, to support the fleet of the future. This planning should include acquisition strategies that 
incorporate engineering-based technology development efforts.
In reviewing shipbuilding programs, there are four basic options (in increasing order of cost and impact to the 
government and shipbuilder):
• Status quo: Continue the current shipbuilding program without significant changes to the design, 
subsystems, facilities, workforce, or suppliers;
• Modified ship: Modify the current ship with changes to the existing design, subsystems, facilities, 
workforce, and/or suppliers:
• New ship: Build a new ship with a different design, subsystems, and significant changes to the facilities, 
workforce, and/or suppliers;
• Production break: Stop the production line and lose the ability to build ships of this size, at least 
temporarily.
When introducing a significant design change, providing enough time to mature the new ship design and critical 
subsystems before beginning construction is a lead ship best practice. Avoiding production breaks requires 
complementary acquisition strategies that continue to construct the existing ship class for a number of years to 
maintain stable workload and supplier orders while designing and transitioning to the new ship.
Conclusion
As has been the case historically, if a shipbuilding production line is abruptly stopped without a clear transition 
plan, there are consequences. Our shipbuilders are businesses with legal and financial responsibilities. Two of the 
four prime contractors are Fortune 500 companies. It should be no surprise that without orders from the Navy, 
production lines will be halted, workers will be laid off, suppliers will not receive task orders, and shipyards will 
shrink or close. This means the Navy may not be able to reconstitute a production line or reopen a shipyard if and 
when desired, thereby limiting the ability to build a fleet with the capability and capacity future Defense and Navy 
leaders will need to deter and defeat adversaries.
Accordingly, the Department of Defense’s objective should always be to transition as smoothly as possible from 
one shipbuilding product line to the next. Doing so requires deliberate planning with strategically-timed 
competitions to ensure our critical shipbuilding industrial base continues to be capable of meeting our Nation’s 
and Navy’s current and future needs.3 We look forward to working with all stakeholders to this end.
--Senator Jack Reed (D-Rhode Island) is the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Senator Jim 
Inhofe (R-Oklahoma) is Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee-76-
RETURN TO TOP
32. Why America is right to quit Afghanistan
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A19 | Fareed Zakaria
Quiz question: When and why did Britain annex Sudan? The answer is in 1899, after a decade and a half of 
fighting. British forces were up against Sudanese militias that had rallied under the banner of a charismatic Islamic 
leader who styled himself as the Mahdi, and whom the British viewed as a fanatical terrorist.
There is a history lesson worth learning here about imperial overreach, as the United States leaves Afghanistan. 
Many voices warn that what follows will be instability and eventually a Taliban takeover. The country will once 
again become a base for terrorism, they argue, and so we must stay to keep it stable and in friendly hands.
The truth is, since 9/11, Washington and most advanced governments have developed a powerful capacity to 
intercept terrorists, track them down and prevent them from launching large-scale attacks. Groups such as alQaeda and the Islamic State are in tatters, hunted everywhere and fragmented into local forces. They operate in 
various unstable countries, such as Afghanistan, Mali and Yemen. This is an argument for global counterterrorism 
efforts, not the sustained occupation of any one particular place.
But the mentality that drove the U.S. occupation of Afghanistan and Iraq was an imperial aversion to any 
instability. During the late 19th century, Britain worried that instability in Sudan - especially from Islamist 
terrorists - would spill over and threaten British access to the Suez Canal in Egypt. That canal provided the lifeline 
to the sea lanes to India, which was the jewel in the crown of the British Empire. As the globe’s superpower, 
Britain had similar fears in many parts of the world. So London sent tens of thousands of troops to fight wars in 
Sudan and elsewhere, annexing remote provinces in Africa and Asia (including Afghanistan!) - all of which turned 
into massive burdens for Britain. The British allowed the tail to wag the dog.
The parallel is not exact, of course, but the United States is the world’s sole superpower, for now. It would be 
unfortunate if the Taliban retook Afghanistan, and Washington should support the Kabul government and work 
with other countries in the region - China, India, and above all, Pakistan - to find a sustainable power-sharing 
arrangement in Afghanistan. But Washington must also keep in mind, as the Biden administration appears to be 
doing, that U.S. forces have spent two decades in Afghanistan. They have done what could be done, successfully 
degrading al-Qaeda and killing Osama bin Laden. Ultimately, Afghanistan is not central to the United States’
position as a global power.
Britain’s greatest mistake during its imperial expeditions at the turn of the 20th century was its failure to 
distinguish between its vital interests and those that were peripheral. By contrast, the most brilliant American 
strategist of the Cold War, George F. Kennan, always said the Cold War depended on a small number of power 
centers. He argued in the late 1940s that there were just five - the United States, Britain, the West German region, -77-
Japan and the Soviet Union. As long as Washington could maintain the 4-to-1 ratio against Moscow, it would win 
the Cold War.
Kennan urged a steely-eyed focus on these centers of power. “We must decide which areas are key areas, and 
which ones are not, which ones we must hold with all our strength and which we may yield tactically,” he said. 
Instead, Washington came to intervene in far-flung places all over the world to prevent communists from gaining 
power anywhere. This was a fool’s errand, and it produced only self-inflicted wounds. Strategy must be based on 
interests, not a reflexive response to any and all threats.
Henry Kissinger, a realist like Kennan, had been a skeptic of the Vietnam War as an academic. As a member of 
the Nixon administration, he supported vigorously prosecuting the war while negotiating the withdrawal of 
American troops. But in his private conversations with Richard Nixon, he revealed that he did not believe in the 
central logic that had guided American intervention. It didn’t really matter if South Vietnam fell, he told Nixon, 
and as long as it happened “a year or two” after U.S. troops were gone, the American public wouldn’t “give a 
damn.” South Vietnam did fall, and it caused a humanitarian tragedy, but in the long run it did not cripple the 
United States. Only a few minor dominoes fell to communism in Asia, and 10 years after the fall of Saigon, the 
Reagan administration was negotiating from a position of strength with the Soviet Union. By 1989, the Berlin 
Wall fell.
A key reason for the collapse of Moscow’s empire, of course, was its intervention in Afghanistan, which bled the 
Soviet Union and sapped its will. The Russians got involved for familiar reasons: an insurgency, internal 
divisions, a fear of instability. Moscow should have paid attention to George Kennan’s sage advice then, as we 
should now.
RETURN TO TOP
33. Biden Says Kabul Is No Saigon
Wall Street Journal, July 9 (0200), Pg. A14 | Editorial
President Biden doesn’t like to be asked difficult questions about Afghanistan. A week ago he rebuffed a reporter 
by saying he preferred to discuss “happy things, man.” He was more forthcoming on Thursday but still tetchy 
when reporters asked about Taliban advances as U.S. troops depart.
Is there a comparison between the U.S. withdrawal in Kabul and the flight from Saigon in 1975? “None 
whatsoever. Zero,” Mr. Biden said. “What you had is you had entire brigades breaking through the gates of our 
Embassy. Six if I’m not mistaken. The Taliban is not the South, the North Vietnamese army. They’re not -- they’re 
not remotely comparable in terms of capability. There’s going to be no circumstance where you’re going to see 
people being lifted off the roof of a embassy” in Afghanistan.-78-
Let’s hope he’s right, but the trends aren’t good, which is why the press is finally daring to ask hard questions. 
Mr. Biden denied media reports that the U.S. intelligence community estimates that the Kabul government could 
fall within six months.
But note that Mr. Biden has finally agreed to have Afghan translators and their families who helped Americans 
airlifted to a third country as they await the visas to the U.S. they were promised. This is welcome news, but it 
underscores how perilous life will be for our Afghan allies as the Taliban take more territory.
Mr. Biden didn’t have to withdraw completely from Kabul. There were alternatives, as the Afghanistan Study 
Group recommended this year. If there is a Saigon-like tragedy, Mr. Biden can’t wash his hands of responsibility.
RETURN TO TOP
34. How We Get to Captain America-level Battle Speeds
We are on the verge of Hollywood-level fast, but the service branches need cultural change and cooperation 
for it to work
DefenseOne.com, July 8 (1724) | U.S. Air Force Vice Chief of Staff Gen. David Allvin 
In the season finale of the Marvel series The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, the new Captain America, a former 
Air Force pararescueman, uses the fusion of perfect communications, flawless sensors, and artificial intelligence 
to lead an air and ground operation to rescue hostages and capture a group of global extremists.
While this was entertaining fiction, the fact is that future conflicts will require the U.S. military to make rapid 
progress toward this and other aspirational visions of command and control, or C2, as I wrote in my recent Defense 
One article on the Department of the Air Force’s Advanced Battle Management System, or ABMS. We are on 
the verge of a time in which we can collect vast amounts of data from sensors in every domain, share it with 
troops in every service branch, process that data to provide decision-quality information, and execute operations 
at a tempo that exceeds our adversary—all within the span of a typical Hollywood action sequence. Deciding and 
acting at speeds that fast is a decisive advantage in conflict and a powerful deterrent.
Unfortunately, our fascination with technological change tends to ground much public discussion on the future 
of C2 in our hardware and software. We fantasize often about how we build an AI like Iron Man’s J.A.R.V.I.S., 
or a command center like the one aboard the S.H.I.E.L.D. helicarrier, or a sensor-rich loyal wingman like Falcon’s 
Redwing.
But for real-world programs like ABMS and the coveted Joint All-Domain Command and Control, or JADC2, to 
come together, we need cultural and organizational advances that are duller than the Hollywood dream-tech but 
more essential. Process matters, as does a uniform set of rules and a streamlined bureaucracy geared toward 
cooperation and integration.-79-
The Department of Defense’s Joint Warfighting Concept and accompanying JADC2 strategy have given the 
services clear marching orders for alignment and integration on the future of C2. There are several key areas in 
which the Air Force must aggressively move forward with the other services to ensure we have a truly joint 
solution, rather than a capability accessible to multiple services. There is indeed a difference.
The first focus area involves standard technical and non-technical approaches to moving, sharing, and employing 
data. Sensors don’t know what service procured them. Algorithms designed to make sense of the environment 
don’t know the uniform of the commander for whom the insights will inform. The purposes for which we collect 
massive quantities of data from myriad sensors vary, but the principle remains the same: make the data available 
and let the user manipulate it to serve their purposes. Proprietary data platforms with pre-baked algorithms are of 
limited use to the joint force.
Sharing isn’t easy, especially when the data source is an existing aircraft or system not designed for universal 
data exchange. When bringing yesterday’s systems forward, we are engaged in the military equivalent of building 
a smart switch that lets us control our 1970’s thermostat from our phone. For the future, however, the bigger 
challenge is creating joint processes and standards for how the services build new tech that is inherently meshed. 
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has reinforced this imperative. In May, he signed a strategy document that 
provides the governance and foundation necessary to enable rapid integration of artificial intelligence, machine 
learning, predictive analytics, and other crucial emerging technologies. The strategy will ensure there is cohesion 
among the Air Force’s ABMS, the Army’s Project Convergence, and the Navy’s Project Overmatch. The Joint 
Requirements Oversight Council is also playing a crucial role here, breaking down barriers and moving the 
services from stove-piped C2 systems toward seamless data sharing across domains and organizations.
Equally important is the early involvement of our military allies and partners as full-time teammates in the C2 
journey, which is already underway within the ABMS program. We believe we can both preserve national security 
equities while enhancing awareness and interoperability with our allies. These are not mutually exclusive goals. 
For JADC2 to work, we must make the practice of partnering on data systems and standards the norm within 
DOD, with industry, and with our allies.
We also must more quickly integrate the service’s laboratories and test centers working on our future C2 systems. 
A key feature of advanced C2 is DevSecOps, the rapid, continuous development and deployment of updated 
software with evolving operational requirements and security concerns identified and addressed along the way. 
Truly joint DevSecOps requires common hubs where service lab work meets joint tactics in tough joint 
operational tests.
The ongoing partnership between the Air Force’s Shadow Operations Center, or ShOC-N, at Nellis Air Force 
Base, in Nevada, and the Army’s Joint Systems Integration Lab, at Aberdeen Proving Ground, in Maryland, can 
serve as a model for integrated testing. Through this collaboration, a constant stream of Air Force, Space Force, 
and Army C2 improvements are rigorously assessed in virtual and live operations. The multi-service perspectives -80-
that inform the design, execution, and evaluation of the Nellis tests and experimentation deliver innovative 
capabilities that are better prepared for the challenges of real-world operations.
This vital component of fielding effective joint C2 systems points to the third key focus for JADC2 cooperation: 
service experimentation must be synchronized to put sufficiently developed technology in the hands of combatant 
commands for further stress-testing. The COCOMs provide exceptionally demanding operational environments 
where JADC2 solutions must sink or swim against the currents of different mission requirements, joint and 
international technologies, and organizational cultures.
The dawn of airpower provided the opportunity to seek new ways to adapt technology, break barriers, and drive 
a change in the character of warfare. It is this spirit of innovation that is woven into the DNA of our airmen. In 
some eras, it can be argued that the technology trailed the vision. Today, technological advances outpace our 
organizational and doctrinal adaptation. In the case of ABMS and JADC2, we must flip the script and accelerate 
our maturation of processes, authorities, and governance in order to match the capabilities that technology has 
placed on our doorstep. If we get the processes wrong—if we can’t clear the bureaucratic hurdles that threaten 
the art of the possible—then we risk winding up with awesome, but wasted, technology. It’s a recipe for losing, 
and that is unacceptable.
--Gen. David Allvin is the U.S. Air Force vice chief of staff
RETURN TO TOP
35. Responding to ransomware
Washington Post, July 9 (0115), Pg. A20 | Editorial
“Are they going to act?” President Biden asked after his meeting with President Vladimir Putin in Geneva about 
whether the Russian government would finally crack down on ransomware gangs. His answer to his own question: 
“We’ll find out.” Now we have.
A massive attack by hacking group REvil struck up to 1,500 businesses in the United States, Europe and Asia late 
last week - reportedly the single largest such salvo in history, and only the latest in a series of encroachments by 
collectives based in or otherwise linked to Russia. Thankfully, the breach of IT software firm Kaseya appears to 
have caused less damage and disruption to critical industry than the recent compromises this spring of food 
processor JBS and oil transport network Colonial Pipeline. But that the incursion occurred at all is a troubling 
sign that Mr. Putin has not heeded Mr. Biden’s exhortation to stop the cybercriminals who currently operate in 
his country from wreaking havoc worldwide.
The White House is sprinting toward a strategy on ransomware, the malicious software that takes a target’s 
systems and information captive until a sum has been paid - with the captors sometimes also threatening to release 
any sensitive data unless their demands are met. Such a strategy is surely necessary: It should include dissuading 
ransom payments, regulating cryptocurrency exchanges to extend know-your-customer and anti-money--81-
laundering requirements, and mandating minimum security standards along with other best practices for beefing 
up defenses. But the Kaseya breach is a dispiriting reminder that companies can never perfectly protect 
themselves. The firm was aware of the vulnerability that hackers exploited, and was working to patch it; the 
problem was the hackers got there first.
Defense, in other words, isn’t enough. Offense is necessary, too. And the most effective offense could come from 
Mr. Putin if he had any interest in running a play. Many cybercriminals located in Russia collaborate directly with 
the regime and its security services. Others operate in accordance with what they believe to be official wishes, 
knowing that’s a near-guarantee against punishment. The Kremlin is very effective in enforcing the law, or its 
version of the law, when it wants to be: Just ask jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Does anyone really 
believe this same institution is incapable of doing anything at all about even the most prolific and prominent 
hackers within its borders?
Mr. Biden shouldn’t believe it. Mr. Putin won’t act in the absence of credible consequences for inaction, and now 
it’s on the White House to make clear what those consequences could be. These should include not merely the 
typical menu of sanctions, asset freezes or trade restrictions, and not merely attempts to incapacitate any criminal 
infrastructure, including cloud-based services, outside of Russia. The consequences must also include the 
aggressive disruption of these gangs where they are: in Russia, on its Internet, throughout the cyberspace over 
which it claims sovereignty - and where Mr. Putin would likely prefer U.S. authorities not prowl. The least 
acceptable answer is to wait longer to “find out” what everyone already knows.
RETURN TO TO